The smell of smoke brought me back to consciousness.  Dark, heavy, all-encompassing cherry smoke.  My throat ached like I had been coughing.  Now, it was too raw to protest anymore.  I heard wind whining somewhere nearby, though it was not touching me.

Next, I felt the cold.  The backs of my ears were burning.  The air I was breathing was warmer.  And stuffy.  There was something soft against my face.  I was half suffocating into it.  Wriggling away from it, I got a frigid blast of smoke-infused air.  My throat twinged, and I fell into a wet, racking coughing fit.

A click.  “Good, you’re not dead.”

I recognized his voice, though my bleary eyes only saw a sea of black and dull red.  After I shook my head, the blob resolved itself into a helmet.  I must have been leaning on him while I was out.  He was less than five inches from my face.

“What…?”

“How does your head feel?”

“My…?”  I felt nothing.  I reached back to look for bumps.  My hair was stiff close to the base of my skull.  Even if that was matted blood, touching my head was painless.  “Fine?  What happened?”

He huffed.  “I hit a rock under the snow.”

When he did not explain further, I pressed, “And then?”

“We hit a tree.”

“So… is the snowmobile drivable or…?”

He opened his mouth with an irritated pop.  “I handled the situation correctly.  The weight shifted.  I leaned against it to counterbalance.  If not for you, I would have been able to fix it.  I did all the right things.”

“It’s totaled, isn’t it?”

“How was I supposed to know there was a rock there!  It would have been fine if the sled hadn’t smashed into the engine.”

I blinked.  His words did not register.  Dully, I gawked at his visor.  It was cracked open just enough for me to hear him talk.  In the dimness, his face and eyes were invisible.  Just the space helmet for a space alien.

A pause.  My senses slowly returned to me.  I looked around the sleek, white walls encasing us.  There was hardly enough room under the low ceiling for the two of us to sit without touching.  Something to my left lit the area.  The flashlight.  He had dug a divot in the snow to angle it on us.

Alpine was on the ground behind it.  The disk sled leaned against the wall.  Or was it buried in the wall?  There was no exit, so the sled must have been sealing the dome.  The ice scraper lay to my right.  I picked it up and stared at it.

He hissed, “You’re welcome.”

“What?”

“That ‘useless tool’ is the reason we have this little sanctuary.”

“You dug out a snow fort?”

“Sanc-chu-ary.”

I glanced between the visor and the disk sled.  “I guess… thanks for not leaving me out there to freeze.”

“Have I finally proven that you can trust me?”

A colony of squirming tingles crept down my back.  “Do you know what time it is?”

He tsked.  “Dark.”

“Don’t you have your watch?”

“What happened to yours?”

It was laying on the bed in the attic.  “So… I guess we’ll head back to the cabin come daylight.”

“Not exactly.  As soon as the storm lets up again, we’re going to find the road.  It can’t be more than—”

“Are you kidding me!?”  Raising my voice triggered another coughing fit.  He took advantage of my incapacitation.

“Did it sound like I was joking?  No?  Then don’t ask silly questions.”

My voice cracked.  “Why won’t you just give up?  We are never going to get to the conference.”

“Always the pessimist.”

“I’m not going with you.  I’m going back to the cabin.”

“I don’t think you’ve thought this through.”

“Yes!  I have.  I don’t care what you’ll do if I don’t dance for you.  I’m not staying out here and freezing to death!”

He laughed silently.

“What!?”

He shook his head.  “We’re out of gas.  There’s no firewood.  There’s not even an axe, because Dad buys the logs.  What exactly are you going to do in the cabin <i>except</i> freeze to death, hun?”

My brain frantically scrambled for alternatives.  “I’ll ask for help at one of the other cabins.  Someone will take pity on me.”

“What other cabins?”

“<i>The</i> other cabins.  <i>Juniper Grove</i>.  That’s the name of this community, right?  I’ll ask one of the other—”

“Do you really think I would have gone through all this trouble if I could talk my way to a solution?”

My mouth hung open dumbly.

“There are no other cabins.  The company financing the community went bankrupt at the start of the project.  They only half-built my dad’s.  He hired people to finish it.  It’s just us out here.”

The word “no” chanted in my head.

“The best chance we have to survive is to make it to the road and walk along it until someone sees us.  That’s the plan now.  And if you want to stay here and die, well, I can do the presentation without you.  I’ve memorized your half.  It’s no skin off my back if you decide to die alone.”  He settled back into the wall of our snow cocoon as if it were a couch in his apartment.  “So, are you coming with me, or am I going to leave you behind?”

I wrapped my arms around my knees.  My legs were numb with cold.  At least the cabin had a nice bed I could die in.  The chance of survival there was pretty much zero at this point.  But did we really have a better chance wandering around in the wilderness?

“I’ll go with you.”

“I thought so.”

He started humming one of his pop songs quietly.  Soon after, he flipped the visor down the rest of the way.  All I could hear after that was the wind gales.  The burning in my ears was dying down, and I knew that was a bad sign.

I covered my head with my gloved hands.  They were so cold that shoving ice into my eardrums would have been equally helpful.  I needed a scarf or something.  Anything I could—the clothes in the duffle bag would work.  Frantically, I looked around the fort.  No sign of it.

“Where’s my bag?”

He flipped the visor up a smidge.  “Oh, right.  That.  I think it might still be under the snowmobile.”

My heart sank until I noticed the trim on the shoulders of his vest.  He had a fur-lined hood.  I leaned forward and pulled his collar aside to check his neck.  Yes.  The hood was attached with a zipper.

He gave a note of surprised laughter.  “My!  Not that I mind you coming over to cuddle, but give a poor guy some warning.”

I swallowed down an indignant “shut up.”  “I’m getting frostbite.  Let me have your hood.”

“What do you have to trade for it?”

“Nothing.  Not dying.”

I was surprised when he unzipped it.  No way it could be this easy.  He played with the hood.  “I want to talk.”

“Done.”

“No, let me clarify that.  I want <i>you</i> to talk.”

“Fine.”

“I want to know how you saw me.”

“Okay, just let me have it.”

“Or maybe, <i>why</i> is the better question…”

I reached out to take the hood, but he held it in an iron grip.  “Come on!”

“I want you to tell me why you’re so fucked up.  In excruciating detail, <i>please and thank you</i>.”

My hold on the hood weakened.  Give in or fight him to the death for it.  Murder sounded like so much effort, and I was very tired.  I squeezed my eyes shut.  “I get it.”

He released the hood.  I put it on and rubbed my ears through the soft fluff.  Meanwhile, he pulled out and lit one of his Crossroads.  He had to lift the visor a little higher to bring the cigarette to his mouth.  A smile of complete control, of victory, played across his face.

When he exhaled, the smoke barely affected me.  The air already reeked of it.  I ventured to look up.  The ceiling of his “sanctuary” was black with soot.

“I’m waiting.”

I shrugged.  “I… I don’t… know.  There isn’t much to tell.  Which, yeah, I guess that’s the problem.  Nothing that happened was unusual.  My life had the same stumbling blocks that everyone else has.  Divorced parents.  Losing friends when I went to college.  Being too shy for my own good.  You know how well my love life has gone.  I don’t have one good excuse.  I’m not that special, and I… What?”

He had stopped smoking.  His lips drew a tight line.  Flat monotone.  “You know I can tell when you’re lying.”

My heartbeat raced as he paused to inhale and exhale.

“I’ll give you credit.  You’re doing better this time.  Some of that was true, I think.  You’re not allowed to even half-lie to me though.  Give me the hood back.”

“Wait, no.”  I pulled the hood tight over my head, so he could not snatch it back.  “Sorry, I just—It—There really isn’t something I can pinpoint and say, ‘Yeah!  That’s what did it!  That’s the trauma I never worked through!’  It’s not like that.  If it was, I would have fixed myself already!  Nothing alone means anything!”

He grabbed me by the collar and pulled me forward.  “One more chance.  No lies.  Excruciating detail.”  

The rot of smoldering fruit on his breath was so intense I gagged.  He let me go.  I flinched back, catching my hip on the corner of Alpine.  That hurt like a bitch.  Once I rubbed the throbbing down to a dull pain, I moved my hands back to my ears.  There was no guarantee I would keep the hood.  I had to warm up while I had the chance.

I gave him a pleading look.  “It really is just a lot of boring stuff.”

“Prove it.”

I bit my lip.  “Fine.  Uh.”  I knew where to start, but loathed going there.  “I guess the first one was the night my dad disappeared.”

“So, your parents didn’t get divorced?”

“Mom said they did.”

“But you don’t believe her?”

“No.”  Even though I could not see them through the visor, I felt his eyes on me.  “My dad wasn’t a great guy, I guess.  I don’t know.  He would get drunk and yell at my mom sometimes.  I never saw him hit her, and I never saw any bruises on her.  But I got the feeling he might have hurt her once or twice.

“I liked him though.  We didn’t often spend time together, but, when we did, he always took me someplace I remembered.  The zoo.  The planetarium.  He was the one who took me camping.  And he made up for the time he wasn’t around by buying me gifts.

“I get the feeling it was stuff that they couldn’t afford.  It’s not like I was starving or anything, but sometimes at the end of the month we would do a ‘fast.’  Mom acted like it was a religious thing, but I think they had run out of money for groceries.”

“I wouldn’t have guessed you grew up religious.  Catholic?  Or Protestant?  Or…?”

“It doesn’t matter.  Do you want me to tell the story or not?”

“Pardon my polite interest.”  He put the cigarette back in his mouth and left it there.

“Anyway… if Dad worked, I have no idea what he did, but he was usually out of the house.  I know Mom was always working.  She had a ‘main’ job doing secretary-style work, but she also did a lot of one-off cleaning or care jobs for the neighborhood.  It meant she was always busy.

“One night, Mom and Dad were arguing.  She wanted him to watch me while she worked.  He didn’t want to do it.  That was a fight they had had many times before.

“The scene was normal enough that I went to my closet of a room and plugged my headphones into the radio.  He had bought me both.  It was probably the best pair of gifts he ever gave me for this very reason.  I could dial the channel to static, turn up the volume, and tune out the screaming.  Back then, I fell asleep quick and slept heavy, but I’m still amazed they didn’t wake me up.

“The next morning, I come down, and the first floor is a war zone.

“Broken dishes.  Overturned chairs.  Spilled food… we kept a flour bag on the counter, because Mom used to make fresh rolls on Saturday evening that we would have for breakfast the next day.  The kitchen table was splintered in half, covered in a dusting of white flour.

“Mom was in the corner by the door, scrubbing at the tile, so I started to put things back.  I had collected a fistful of spoons by the time she realized I was there.  She told me to stop.  She stood up and put a hand on my shoulder.  She said, ‘Dad left.  He’s not coming back.’  Exactly that and nothing more.

“I dropped the spoons, and they clattered all over the floor.  She picked them up and put them in the drawer.  Then, she went back to cleaning.  I stood there and cried all morning.  What else was I going to do?  I was nine or something.”

I paused to rub at my forehead.

He took the cigarette out of his mouth.  “You… don’t think he left though.  At least, not voluntarily.”

“No.  I don’t have a good reason why.  Not really.”

“What’s your not-good reason?”

After a slow, deep breath, I continued.  “A week or two later, I was in the kitchen making a peanut butter and jelly sandwich.  It was the height of summer, and flies were sneaking in every time we opened the door.  There was a big, ugly one buzzing around the kitchen, trying to land in the jelly.  I swiped at it again and again, missing every time.

“It flew up to the ceiling and landed there.  There was no chance I could reach it from the ground, so I ran upstairs to grab a baseball.  Once I had it, I lined myself up, took aim, and then stopped.

“There was a brown stain on the ceiling next to the fly.  Three dots, then a streak.

“Even though I wasn’t supposed to, I had watched some of those real crime shows with my dad.  My brain immediately decided the stain was blood spatter.  It had to be.  I rushed over to the corner where Mom had done the most cleaning and feverishly searched for more evidence.

“Every hinge, cabinet, tile, and can was inspected.  I looked so long that, by the time I gave up, the fly had crawled into my sandwich and suffocated there.  I never found anything.  There was just the stain on the ceiling.”

“You think she murdered him.”  A grin stretched across his entire face.

“Look, I know how unlikely it is.  I know the stain could have been a million other things.  Even if it was blood, even <i>his</i> blood, maybe he just got hurt while they were fighting.  They tore the house apart!”

“But you don’t believe in the alternatives, do you?”

I closed my eyes.  “I kept looking at it.  Checking on it.  Every day.  Eventually, Mom caught me doing it.  She shooed me into my room.  The next morning, the stain was gone.  The kitchen was spotless and smelled like bleach.”

He gave a deep chuckle.  “And you said the story was boring.  When is a murder ever boring?”

“Because I don’t know if she did it!  Or if there even was a murder!  There was just a stain on the ceiling, and my asshole dad, who didn’t even like my mom—and, honestly, probably didn’t like me all that much either—was gone.”

“But you <i>believe</i> she killed him.  It’s <i>real</i> for you.”  He snuffed out his cigarette on the wall.  “And the beauty is, there’s more.  What’s next?  A double murder?”

“Yes, someone dies, if that makes you happy to know!”

“It does!  But I want the story.”

I could feel my ears again.  Maybe it would be okay if I let him have the hood back.

No.  I would need it for the morning.  For the trek to and along the main road of nowhere for hours.  Talking about my past was better than thinking about that future.  The past was the past.  Done.  The future still loomed with a growing fear that I would not get out of this alive.

“I think you can guess how my home life went with Dad gone.  Quiet.  Stable.  Mom was busy as ever, and I was always alone.  I mastered sliding under the radar at school.

“My grades weren’t good enough for me to be a brainiac.  I wasn’t athletic enough to be a jock.  Or skinny enough to be a bully magnet.  Neither a teacher’s pet nor a troublemaker.  I had acquaintances I referred to as my ‘friends,’ because we would talk for a few minutes on the bus or when we did a school project together.

“I was there, but I also really wasn’t.  I doubt you know what I mean.”

He laughed.  “Just because I prefer to conquer the world doesn’t mean I can’t understand that you wanted to crawl through it on your belly like a lizard.”

“It’s not like that.”

“You still do it at work.  Or did until I let you ride my coattails.”

“That’s…  Fine.  See it like that.”  My voice trailed into a mumble.

He waved for me to continue as he pulled out another Crossroads.

I cleared my throat.  “I met Alex when I was 14.  My best friend.  Or at least I called him that.  Friend might be the wrong word though.  He was more like a brother, but not in a good way.  He could be an absolute monster to me.

“When he got in the mood, he tormented me.  He poked and prodded at every weak point I had.  Time to time, he even beat the ever-loving shit out of me.  But I had seen his bruises.  I knew his dad did the same to him.  It was how he related to family.

“Plus, I had free rein to go off on him.  And trust me, I did.  He knew that every ounce of insult and pain he inflicted on me would come back to him in time.  Every scar he gave me had a twin somewhere on his body.  It was part of our unspoken pact.  Maybe you’re wondering why I got into something like that.”

He cut me off, speaking in a low drone.  “Because it was real.  You could say exactly what you were thinking and be exactly who you were.  Even when what you were was undesirable.  Consequences be damned.”

“You’re missing the most important part.”

“Please, enlighten me.”

“Loyalty.  It was all about loyalty.  We had exclusive rights to hurt one another.  Alex went mad dog on anyone who so much as gave me a dirty look.  We sent a kid who shoved Alex into a locker to the hospital.

“And it wasn’t just us against the world all the time.  We had good stuff too.  One day, he bought an electric guitar at a garage sale that sparked when he hit certain notes.  Alex couldn’t play for shit, but he loved that thing.

“He wanted to start a band.  I was supposed to be the singer.  I think he wanted me to do it because he knew I would hate it.  He nagged me for months to sing over his covers.  When I finally did, he decided I should be the drummer instead.  Only, my sense of rhythm wasn’t any better than my singing voice.  He fired me from the band and said I should be his agent instead.

“I knew the band was just a game we played, but Alex didn’t.  He started to seriously look for more people to make it a real thing.  There was this party he got us invited to, where we were going to meet other local kids with talent.  The problem was that we were still acting like idiots at school.

“A few days before the party, we got suspended for crushing a kid’s hand in a door.  The only reason we didn’t get expelled was because the kid had brought a knife to school and threatened to use it.  Sure, it was in his locker when we hurt him, but we lied.  Said we didn’t know that.  After all, he had been showing it off to our classmates earlier.  We got off easy, all things considered.

“When Mom found out, she gave me a disapproving glare and grounded me.  Alex had been permanently grounded since he was born, but always snuck out of his room.  He coaxed me into going out with him that night, so we could act like terrors downtown.  I knew when Mom would be home, so it was no big deal.  She would never find out.

“Except she came home an hour early and discovered me gone.

“When I got home, she freaked out that I had disobeyed her.  She screamed at me the way she used to scream at Dad.  My mind was completely blown.  She had not so much as raised her voice since he disappeared.  And what she said—”

Feeling the sting of salt rising in my eyes, I rubbed at my face.  Tried to make it go back down.  Not that it made a difference.  The noisy sniffing sounds I was making while trying to keep my sinuses clear gave me away.  I hated this part of the story.

I whispered, “She said if she caught me sneaking out again, she’d kill me.  And yeah, I know people say that metaphorically.  They say it when they’re angry and never mean to follow through, but—”

He finished for me: “There was a chance she meant it for real.”

“Yeah.”  I exhaled harshly.  “Alex came by the next night to take me to the party.  I told him I couldn’t go.  We got into a fist fight over it.  When he finally gave up, he told me we weren’t friends anymore and to go fuck myself.

“He drank too much at the party.  Tried to drive home but smashed into another car instead.  Died in the hospital.  Took a few days.  Mom wouldn’t let me see him before he passed.  I was 17.  Haven’t had a real friend since.”

“So, mommy killed daddy <i>and</i> your best friend.”

“Alex was <i>my</i> fault,” I hissed.  “I was supposed to drive him and stay sober.  I knew he had a problem with alcohol.  It was my job to keep it from killing him.  I failed because I was afraid of a part of my mom that probably doesn’t exist.”

“Do you still talk to her?”

“My mom?  No.  Not since I left for college.  Why?”

Through a contented smile, he said, “Shame.”  He paused to consider something.  “So, Alex is the reason you don’t drink.”

“It’s not that simple.”

“Don’t leave me in suspense.”

“You have it backwards.  Alex was the reason I <i>started</i> drinking.  I mean, I had been wasted with him a few times when he was alive, but usually I just had one or two when we crashed parties.  When he passed, I started drinking way more in honor of him.  Like I had to drink his share.  He would have expected me to.  At least, that’s what I told myself.”

He waited for me to clarify.

“I think I was really doing it because I wanted to go out the same way he did.”

“Did you ever get in a car while you were drunk?”

“Plenty of times.”

“You ever hit anyone?”

I snorted.  “I never even turned the car on.  I would slosh into the driver’s seat, put the keys in the ignition, and stare at them until I fell asleep.  I never had the balls to be truly self-destructive.  Not even when I was drunk.”

The cigarette twirled in his hand.  He had not smoked it at all.  It had burned slowly, giving off a wispy line like an incense stick.  “Do you think… If I had met you back then… Could I have been your best friend in his place?”

“I don’t know.  Maybe.”  Allowing for the possibility so easily made me shiver.  But it was the truth.  “I wouldn’t be friends with someone like Alex now.  At the end of the day, he was toxic.  He made <i>me</i> toxic.  Back then, I didn’t know any better.  I think you still would have scared me though.”

He shook his head.  “What about me is scary?  I dress nice.  I talk nice.  I’m friendly.  I’m pleasant.”

“You have the eyes of a shark.  Always hungry.  Always looking for the next kill.”

“And that’s why you won’t look me in the eye?  Huh.  Sorry, don’t think I can fix that, because I don’t even know what I’m doing to look that way.”

“You’re hunting.”

He licked his lips.  “That’s the wrong word.”

“What’s the right word?”

“I’m going to have to get back to you on that.  What’s next in the story?”

I shrugged.  “Nothing.  Just a lifetime of moments that brought me down.  None of them are worth the words it would take to tell them.  Assuming I could even remember them.”

His helmet tilted from side-to-side, considering.  “All right, all right.  I suppose you’ve entertained me enough.  I’ll let you off the hook.  For now.  We should probably get some sleep anyway.  Unless being unconscious earlier made you feel well rested?”

“No.”

“Want the rest of this?”  He held out his cigarette.  “Having the heat inside you really warms you up.  I didn’t use it, so it doesn’t have my cooties all over it.”

I took the cigarette and examined it, rotating it along all angles.  “I think I’ve already gotten enough smoke secondhand today.”

I crushed it into the snow floor.  When I glanced at him to see his reaction, I realized he had clicked the visor closed again.  The flashlight was glinting off his helmet.

I fidgeted.  “I’m going to shut off the flashlight, so we’re not wasting the battery.”

As I reached back to get it, the visor clicked open.  “We’ve got the spares.  Though if you don’t mind being alone in the dark with me, then, by all means, do so.  It’s on for your sake, not mine.”

It was on so he could watch my every squirm and shiver.  In the darkness, though, he could do anything.  The flashlight remained on.
