The setting sun glinted off the raised, metal letters on the hotel sign, blinding me.  Through the rolled-down window, I heard occasional bursts of crickets, hiding in the messy hedges bordering the parking lot.  The cool, dry breeze was tinged with the oil from the thousands of cars that raced over the nearby interstate.

He was inside doing check-in.  I tried to come to terms with the idea of sleeping in the same room with him.  Though that assumed he intended to sleep instead of chatter at me all night.

Pain twinged through my stiff legs.  I opened the door and got out to stretch.  While I was at it, I removed our luggage from the back seat.  First, I slung my duffel bag over my shoulder.  Then I went around to the car’s other side for his suitcase.  It was so heavy that he must have packed for a one-month vacation in Europe instead of a short conference trip.

Before I shut the door, a sparkle drew my attention.  There was something shiny on the floor behind his seat.  A four-pack of some obscure artisanal beer.  It was higher quality than the cheap, vile swill I had been drinking to scratch the itch.  The four-pack was also higher proof.

“I see you found my surprise for you.”  He stepped to my side to pick up the pack.  “Thanks for getting my suitcase by the way.”  Without grabbing his bag, he turned back to the hotel.

“Don’t you want your cigarettes?”

“Maybe later.  You don’t want me to smoke in the room, though.  There’s no point in bringing them up.”

I closed the car door and followed him with our luggage.  We took the elevator to the fourth floor.  Our room was down the hall.  He unlocked the door and walked in.

I stood at the entrance, staring at the number plate.  Room 403.  My old duffel bag sagged down my shoulder until it dropped to the ground.

He returned long enough to shoo my fingers from his suitcase and roll it inside.  In my peripheral vision, I saw him open the suitcase.  He set his pajamas on the bed by the door to claim it.  Searched the room for the TV remote.  It was on a lounge chair by a circular table in the corner.  The four-pack had ended up on that table.

After tossing the remote onto his bed, he fetched my duffel bag.  He deposited it on the far bed.  Humming, he set the alarm on the side table.  Finally, he opened the TV cabinet, perfecting the scene.  He sat on the edge of his bed, watching me with a hollow, congenial smile.

My burning need to validate reality crushed that little voice.  The one warning me that there was nothing he wanted more than for me to ask.  “You picked this room on purpose.”  So much for asking.

“I did.  I thought it would make you feel more at home.”

“Is that also why you brought the booze?”

“Do you really want me to answer that?”

As I crossed my arms, my shoulders crept up.  “No.”

“Go at your own pace.”  He laid back on the bed.  That put me out of his line of sight.  “Though, honestly, at least come inside.  If anyone walks down the hall, you’re going to make them uncomfortable.”

I shuffled past the threshold, closed the door, and sat down.

He huffed.  “You’re up against the door, aren’t you?”

I said nothing.

“Sometimes, you can be so dramatic.”  He hopped off the bed and dug through his suitcase.  After he retrieved whatever he was looking for, he went to the round table.  He grabbed a beer and popped the cap with a bottle opener.  Giving it an appraising sniff, he wandered over to me.  “Beer was never really my thing, but this smells pretty good.  I think I picked well, even if I do say so myself.”  He placed the bottle next to me.

“What, do you think I’ll be more fun if I get myself drunk?”

“No.  Well, maybe.  But one bottle isn’t enough to get <i>you</i> drunk, is it?  I thought it might mellow you out.  You really should try to relax.  Being so anxious all the time can’t be good for your heart.”

“Are you going to stand there staring at me until I chug it?”

He considered it.  “No.  I think I’d rather watch TV, to be honest.  Whether you drink it or not is on you.”  True to his word, he went back to the bed, grabbed the remote, and began channel surfing.

The bottle fixated me.  Days, weeks, months of relapse had retrained my body to expect alcohol every evening.  Silly of me to have thought that some good could come from this trip in the form of sobriety.  Of breaking the cycle.  Besides, he was right; it would mellow me out.  With that, I talked myself out of resisting.

The bottle was more than half empty when he said, “You know, unless you intend to sleep on the floor tonight, you should probably get used to the idea of being in the bed next to mine.  I imagine you’re going to struggle to sleep otherwise.”

Unfortunately, he was right.  I rose to my feet and dragged myself to the far bed.  Sitting cross-legged with the bottle in my lap prevented him from seeing it.  I did not want him to know how fast I was drinking.  Maybe that was an impossible goal.  Even watching his program, he probably noticed that, after two sips, I was faking it.  The bottle was empty.

An hour passed before he stretched his arms over his head.  “I’m feeling restless and stiff.  I think a walk around the hotel would do me good.  Maybe I’ll grab some snacks.  Can I get you anything?”

“N-no.  Thanks.  I’m good.”  I was surprised he did not invite me to go with him.

He tossed me the remote.  “I’ll see you in a little bit then.”

When the door clicked shut, I picked up the remote.  My eyes wandered to the round table.  I grimaced, realizing why he had left me alone.  He had sensed that his presence deterred my drinking.  Clearly, he was desperate to get me wasted.  And a big part of me wanted the same.  I was already one in the hole, so what difference would a second one make?

After I found a mesh trashcan to drop the first bottle into, I cracked open a second.  I changed the channel to news and turned down the volume.  That was all I wanted: the quiet sound of voices.  Not the content.

With no one to talk to and nothing to distract me, the second bottle was short-lived.  It hit me harder and faster than what I normally drank.  Trying to place the bottle in the trashcan, it slipped out of my hand.  It landed with the clinking of glass on glass, as if the two bottles were saying cheers.

I wrapped my hand around the third bottle’s neck.  Okay.  This was where it had to stop.  I opened the third and fourth bottles and carried them to the bathroom.  I put the third one on the counter and started pouring the fourth down the drain.

It was easy to do, since I had promised myself the third as a reward for emptying the fourth.  Near future me would curse current me.  Distant future me would be proud.  Or maybe “understanding” was the more accurate word.

“Must you?”

How he had snuck in without me hearing the door open and shut, I will never know, but he scared the shit out of me.  I dropped the fourth bottle in the sink and knocked the still-full third bottle off the counter.  It shattered on the tile floor.

A breathless whisper, “Goddamn it.”

“Oh dear.”  He flitted out of sight and came back with the trash can.  I was already on my knees, carefully collecting the largest glass fragments.  “Careful, you don’t want to cut yourself.”

I dropped the shards into the trashcan without acknowledging him.  Next, I set to work on picking up the smallest pieces, sliver by sliver.  He hovered over me, pointing out glass sparkles I had missed.

One of those pieces nicked me on its way to the trash.  I rubbed the single blood drop off the tip of my finger.  When we both saw nothing more, I tossed a towel onto the spilled beer to soak it up.

He held the fourth bottle out to me.  “There’s still some left.”

Without hesitation, I downed its remnants.  Then dropped it into the trash can.

He chuckled, picking up the trashcan.  “When the urge hits you again, I’m more than happy to get you more.  Just don’t dump anything else I buy for you down the sink, okay?”

“Fuck.  You.”

“Excuse you!  There’s no need for that language.  I’m trying to be helpful.  I’m just asking that you respect—”

“You’re asking me to destroy myself!  It’s been that way since day one!  You’ve isolated me.  Humiliated me.   Hurt me.  Driven me absolutely insane!”

My eyes locked onto his.  At first, his pupils were small and still.  They flared as he said, “That’s… not exactly what I want.”

“Then what the hell <i>do</i> you want!?”

“I believe we talked about this at my place, when—”

“Christ, stop it!  Stop talking like that!”

He dropped the trashcan, stepped into my space, and switched to monotone.  “That sounds like an invitation.  I’m ready if you are.”

My knees gave.  He grabbed me by the shoulders on the way down.  I punched at his guts but was too dizzy to put force into it.

He grabbed my hair and pinned my face to the tub’s edge.  “Try that again, and I’ll give it back tenfold!”

I whimpered, willing my vision not to go out.  He took that as a signal of compliance and started dragging me out of the bathroom.  I flailed with both hands for anything.  My left hand found the trashcan.  It fell onto its side.

I reached in.  Snatched a glass shard.  It bit into my skin, but I held tight.  He had me in the hall now.  I whirled around.  Kicked his leg.  Instant freedom.  He toppled to his knees.

I tackled him flat.  Kneeled on his stomach.  Ripped his skull back.  Exposed his neck.  Glass to throat.  Pressed down.

We stared at one another, both panting.  His eyes were nothing but black circles blurred by my anger, my tears, and the stress-induced static.  He swallowed and relaxed.  Whatever stupid thing I did next, he would accept it.

A drop of red swept down his neck.  Then three more.  My blood.  My hand held the glass fragment in a death grip.  It hurt.  The pain brought me back to reality.  Made me fully recognize what I was positioned to do.

I let go of him.  Trembling, I scrambled back.  I hunched up against a wall and tentatively opened my left hand.  It was soaked in red.  I wanted to take the glass out, but touching it hurt.  It had embedded itself deep in my palm.

Meanwhile, he sat up.  Shaking at first, but his recovery was quick.  He watched me horrify myself as I tried and failed to remove the glass.  He reached out slowly.

I was so sure he would hurt me worse, but his approach paralyzed me.  Cautiously, he took hold of the glass.  He plucked it out in one swift motion.  I swore, and blood gushed out, but the deed was done.

Sliding up the wall onto my feet, I put pressure on the wound.  I stumbled into the bathroom.  Turned on the faucet.  Let the water sweep the blood away.  Sweep <i>me</i> away.  Drop by drop.  Cell by cell.  It had to stop soon.

Behind me, he righted the trashcan.  The bloody fragment fell into it with a jingle.  He carried the trash out of the bathroom and closed the door on me.  The TV increased in volume.  Quick flips between channels.  A laugh track.  He stuck with whatever sitcom it was.

The bleeding finally slowed.  I wrapped a scratchy, white hand towel around the wound.  I sat down on the tub with my feet on the alcohol-soaked towel, rocking back and forth.

Sounds of his rising.  I stilled.  He dug through his luggage.  Walked to the bathroom door.  Opened it.

He stayed in the hallway but held something out for me.  My shaking right hand took it.  A small roll of gauze.  How in the hell could he have been prepared for this?

He closed the door.  I locked it.
