Midnight rain pattered on the house’s dark windows.  The day before, it had been filled with life.  Hopes and dreams for the future.  An hour ago, only a desperate certainty of what must be done remained.  Now, its still air grew stuffy and stale.  It would take days or weeks for someone to stop by the secluded lot, seeking its owners.

How many bodies would approach that threshold and leave unanswered before an unnerving sense shook them?  How long until the police were called?  What state would the scene be in when the sleepy constables of nothing-ever-happens-in-a-small-town decided to investigate the property to put some busybody’s worries to rest?

Once the storm died down, the insects would discover what was left for them.  However, they would not be the first visitors.

The doorknob on the main entrance clicked.  The old master, a teen dressed in a black raincoat and gloves, jiggled it back and forth.  No luck.  It was unlocked, but the deadbolt had been thrown.  He turned and shrugged at his companions behind him: the young master and the apprentice, also in black slickers.

The young master drummed his fingers on a brand-new Model T, one of the first of its kind.  With a huff and a sneer, he walked to the nearest window.  He gave it two testing taps with his knife’s handle.  On the third impact, the glass cracked into a spider web of lightning-shaped streaks.  A final blow shattered the pane.

“What are you thinking?!” cried the apprentice.  His forehead wrinkled as he ran a hand through his prematurely greying hair.  “You’re leaving evidence!”

With a note of patient weariness, the old master said, “It’s fine.”

“It doesn’t matter,” the young master spat.  “It’s not like it’s our mess in there.  No thanks to <i>you</i>.”

The apprentice took a chided step back, bumping into his servant.  Several barely concealed scars marred the servant’s neck.  He and the other three servants lacked raincoats.  They stood unprotected in the downpour without complaint.  Without a hint of a shiver.

The old master tsked.  “Rhodes, you too.  This is a learning experience, not a punishment.”

“Whatever.”  Rhodes had intended to speak with bite.  Instead, his words came out as a moody, teenage sulk.  The curse of a youthful body.  He turned back to the window and knocked over the remaining glass spikes.  Reaching in, he found and undid the deadbolt.  “Problem solved.”

“Is this really okay?” the apprentice asked.

“None of this is okay.” The old master waved for his servant, the tallest and seemingly oldest, to open the door.  Naturally, the old master limped through first.  However, Rhodes waved for the apprentice to go next.  

The apprentice hesitated, suspicion in his eyes.  He stepped aside as the final servants went to Rhodes’ left and right.  Those two women were stunningly beautiful and delicate.  One with blonde hair and sharp features.  The other a golden brunette with soft features.

Rhodes’ third servant, a dark brunette, had been left at the compound in Omaha.  That one was uncomfortably young.  And, sure, that was typical of first servants.  However, the expended ones were meant to be put to rest.  Rhodes kept his, fussing over them like a doll collection.

With a terse smile, Rhodes motioned again for the apprentice to proceed.  The apprentice held his ground.  Rhodes frowned.  “Move it, Chuckles.”

“Would you stop calling me—”

“This is for your benefit.  Not mine.  MOVE.”

The apprentice gave in, willing his servant to stay close on his heels.  As soon as he crossed the threshold, he stepped into a sticky splattering of blood.  The real carnage was just ahead in the living room.  One brief glimpse of the scene.  “Oh my god.” He covered his mouth.  Stumbled to the room’s far corner.

Laughing bitterly, Rhodes took off his raincoat.  “You’re through your first trade, but you’re still squeamish?”  The apprentice said nothing.  The old master snapped his fingers.  His servant closed the door then stood before it like a bodyguard.  Rhodes passed his dripping raincoat to the golden brunette then took his place beside the old master.

Whispering, “Be kind, Rhodes.  You know Charlie wasn’t ready for this.”

“He’s been initiated.  And it’s not like he was an early bloomer.”

“This is a mess.”

Two bodies.  One male, late-teens.  One female, harder to gauge, but at least a preteen and possibly mid-teens.  She was no older than that.  The boy was propped up awkwardly on the couch, while the girl was collapsed on the floor at his feet.

His throat had been slashed several times.  Two cuts were short and shallow.  The last one had been vicious.  Blood trailed in from the kitchen and over an armchair before finally pooling on a cream-colored rug.  The girl must have moved the boy to the couch before beginning her work.

A long bone had been removed from the boy’s left forearm.  It lay underneath her, scored with cuts.  She had begun carving the same bone from her arm but must have hit an artery.  Maybe a few.  The tan couch sported two red arcs.  Her blood had spurted, then flowed, then dripped out of her self-inflicted wounds onto her skirt and blouse.

Rhodes kneeled.  Rolling up his sleeves revealed three long, black tattoos aligned with each radius and his left ulna.  He rifled through a toolbox laying by the girl.  A pair of scissors.  A hammer and chisel.  Needle and fishing wire.  Gauze.  A bottle of rubbing alcohol.  Mixed kitchen knives, some serrated, others smooth.

A large bread knife lay on the boy.  The girl’s weapon of choice.  Rhodes said, “She was well prepared.  Thought it through…  She should have used the deboning knife though.”

“Jokes at a time like this?”  The old master shook his head.  “I know it’s pointless, but check her anyway.  If she just went down, we might be able to fix this.”

“With all this blood?”  Regardless, Rhodes took a long breath to center himself.  His body heat dimmed.  His fingertips paled.  A hint of turquoise flashed through his dark eyes.  He placed a hand on the forehead of the girl, the murderer, the not quite self-initiated but so close.

“Nothing.”

Not even that frantic buzzing that should have marked the freshly dead.  Odd.  He checked the boy and felt that hum.  Intrigued, he made a mental note to add that to the Book later.

Rhodes stood, whistling for his blonde servant.  When they touched, more turquoise bolted through his eyes.  He eased out a shallow breath.  She remained unresponsive.

“It’s a shame.”  The old master’s voice was distant.  “Females have been so rare lately.  And she was obviously capable if she got this far on her own.”

“Unlike some people,” Rhodes smirked.  His expression faded as the weight the old master’s disappointment settled in.  “I hope you didn’t have any <i>grand plans</i> to start a breeding program.”

“It’s hardly an original idea.  If we kept to ourselves, it would prevent a lot of—” the old master waved at the scene.

“Whatever the hell is wrong with us, it’s already out there.  Inbreeding is not going to fix it.  Though, we could all just stop fucking.  Other than the you-know.”  He tilted his head towards the blonde.

“If corpses are to your taste.”

“Well, aren’t we high and mighty.  You would have been a too old for that little girl anyway, don’t you think?  Not that she would have known.  At least at first.  What do you think would give it away?  Your ancient phrases, or your lackluster performance?”

“I suppose you must get nothing but compliments from the dead girls.  Perhaps, as she is, our failed initiate is more <i>your</i> type.”

Before Rhodes could snipe back, Charlie interrupted with a wet cough.  He noisily swallowed down whatever he had last eaten.  Rhodes hissed, “Either go to the toilet and take care of that or get over here!”

Weakly, Charlie took a step away from the wall.  He looked as pale as the dead teens.  By the time he reached the masters, he was swooning from the coppery smell in the air.  At least he had the wherewithal to summon his servant to steady him when he saw the bodies again.

The old master began, “This is why we scout.  Without help, surviving the bone trade is extraordinarily difficult.  Do you understand the gravity of your mistake?”

“Yes…”

“Then you’ll be more diligent in the future.  Not let it come to this.”

“I don’t know what I missed.”

Rhodes piped in, “Do you think a teenager owns this house by herself?”

Charlie stared blankly then furrowed his brow.

“I guess you didn’t notice the rotting stink.  Nor did you check to see who is supposed live here.  <i>Lived</i> here…  Want to go upstairs and see how many other bodies she left?  I’m expecting at least two more.”

The old master rubbed his temples.  “Must you be this way, Rhodes?  In any case—"

“Wait, no, that doesn’t make sense.” Charlie shook his head.  “Why would she kill other people?  The boy was who she wanted.  And if she had to get rid of someone to get to him, then why bother?  Anyone will do.  And isn’t taking just one is bad enough?”

“And that is why your servant so unappealing.” Rhodes sighed in disappointment.  “You wouldn’t have made it this far without us.”

“At least I did some good!”

“Is that what you tell yourself, so you can sleep at night?  Oh, look at you, devouring a criminal to save your own skin.  Such a paragon of justice!”

“This is not how we train!” the old master cut in.  “Either teach or keep your mouth shut.”

“Fine.  Girls.” Rhodes’ servants took their places in his out-stretched arms.  “What you need to get through your thick skull is this isn’t a theft.  It’s an exchange.  Yes, their fire stokes ours.  And without them, well...”  Rhodes looked down at the dead girl.  “But there’s still a price to pay for maintaining them.  They’re an investment with diminishing returns.

“Eventually, they’ll drain you.  But, if your servants are compatible, you can manage it for a long time.  It's why I can keep my old ones while the rest of you have to put them down.  Choosing well keeps your cycles long, lengthens your lifespan, gives you something nice to look at—the benefits just don’t quit…

“Meanwhile, your first choice was so bad that your cycle could be as short as a year.  That’s not sustainable.”  He turned to the old master.  “Is it?”

“It’s not.”

“Prove it to him.”

The old master’s eyes narrowed.  “Really?”

“I thought you wanted to be pedantic.”

“You’re just looking to brag.”

“Bragging?  Greg, come on, you know me better than that.  If anything is going to convince that self-righteous idiot that he’s hurting himself, it’s your trades.  But you’re the one who cares about him.  Not me.  It’s your choice.”

Grumbling, “Fine.”  Greg took off his raincoat and left glove, tucking them under his arm.  He rolled up his sleeve to reveal the tattoos on his skin.  All three long bones, the carpals, and metacarpals down to last phalange of each finger.  “My right’s no better.”

“He’s already seen that on Marcel.  That doesn’t bring the point home.  He needs to see what happens when you run out of good trades.”

Greg dropped his raincoat and pulled off the other glove.  He unbuttoned his shirt and balled it up in his right hand.  His ribcage and clavicles were lined in black.  There was the hint of a tattoo on his left side where his hip began.  That was the leg he limped on.  His arms dropped to his sides, and he shrugged, as if to say <i>it is what it is</i>. 

“Holy—” Charlie gasped.

“His legs are no better, but let’s spare him that indignity.”   Rhodes looked to Greg.  “Do you mind turning around though?”  Greg complied, revealing more tattoos.  Both scapula and three consecutive vertebrae in his upper back.

Charlie whispered, “I thought the Book said you couldn’t do the spinal column.”

“Not couldn’t, <i>shouldn’t</i>,” Rhodes clarified.  “I wrote that.  Verbs matter.”

“Those ones almost killed me.” Greg turned back around and put his shirt on.

“W-What do you have left to trade?”

Greg’s jaw tightened.  “We’re going to try teeth next.  It hasn’t been done before.  Or at least it hasn’t been written about.  It’s not often that one of us lives long enough to make as many trades as I have.  I might hold the record.”

“I’m telling you,” Rhodes started, “it’s not going to work.  There’s not enough bone.  You’re going to lose at least your bottom jaw and probably more.  I’m not sure I can attach the trade in its place.  I’d rather not put you through that if we can’t do it.  You still have your right—”

“You have plenty of time yet to practice.  Please finish your point.”

“What point?”

“The importance of compatibility.”

Rhodes opened his mouth with a pop.  “Ah!  That was how we got here.  Yes.” He turned to Charlie.  Then looked back at Greg.  “This isn’t bragging.  This is a fact.”  His gaze returned to Charlie.  “Greg is one generation older than me.  He’s been through nineteen trades.  I’ve done three.  The short story is: pick well or become a mass of black.”

“But how can you tell who’s compatible?” Charlie asked.

“I mean, I just follow my—"

“It’s about emotional connections,” Greg interrupted.  “Their emotions, not yours.  The way you connect is up to you, but strangers won’t cut it.  Form a relationship first.”

Charlie shook his head, mouthing half-formed arguments.

Rhodes picked up in the pause.  “What I was going to say was we do this is on instinct.  That’s what you missed while scouting her.  That she was grooming this kid for the part.  She was hunting.  But you didn’t want to believe it.  You don’t want to see it.  You don’t want to admit that this is what we are.  It’s time to accept it.”

“…Okay.”

“And if you catch yourself hunting, have someone watch your back.  The next initiate will become your partner, but you might need to trade before then.  Even I don’t wish going through that alone on you.”

“Got it...”

“The rain is letting up,” Greg said.  “There’s no way to make these deaths look normal.  We’ll have to carry these two out and dispose of them elsewhere.  Rhodes, make sure she didn’t practice on the bodies upstairs.”

As Rhodes made his way to the staircase, Charlie turned to Greg.  “Is that really all clean up we’re going to do?”

A shrug.  “It’s all that’s needed.  Even without us, humanity has a nasty penchant for murder.  We may as well let society take care of it.”
