Torani spent the next weeks in one of three places.  Asleep in his den.  Out of the nest hunting.  Guiltily visiting the grub in the ascension layer.

Once or twice, he started the trip down, only to realize Vaeilentha was there.  That left him no choice but to retreat.  News of the grub’s ascension had not come from him.  It had passed from Serana to Demeko to Rotero to the queen.  When Torani was interrogated about it, he confirmed: rising royal.  Vaeilentha was over the moon.

Every moment spent in her company became syllable alphabet soup.  Maybe she would name her knight Al-or-o.  Or Ven-er-a.  Perhaps even Or-ven-i.  Torani wanted to rip out her tongue and eat it.  Since that was not an option, he did everything in his power to avoid her instead.  That evolved into avoiding everyone.  Including Serana.

Though, to be fair, that was necessary anyway.  He ached to confess to her.  To explain how much he wanted that grub.  How it would be better off with him.  How unfair it all was!  Serana would either listen and understand… or she would tell him he was crazy and try to stop him.  That risk kept him quiet.  

Besides, her confidence would make her liable for Torani’s insanity.  He would not put that burden on her.  If he did something rash, he would take the fall for it alone.

Even if excluding Serana meant leaving the nest before sunset.  And coming back after sunrise.  And making lame excuses about his absences that infuriated her when she stayed up to meet him at dawn.  Eventually, she gave up confronting him.  Now, <i>she</i> avoided <i>him</i>.  His self-architected isolation was complete.

In his desperation, Torani made a stupid decision: he started sleeping in the cocooning den.

The carved rock floor was sharp, uneven, and unyielding.  The pit was frigid.  Without his feathers, there was nothing to keep Torani from shivering all day.  Every evening, he woke to sore muscles from laying on the jagged ground.  And tense nerves, fearing that someone would catch him down there.  Regardless, he slept more soundly in that miserable, cramped hole than in his den.

He dreamed mad fantasies where he dug this nook deeper, creating a new chamber.  The queen would understand and allow it.  Afterall, it would still belong her.  Like his den.  Technically hers, but also his.  He would collect the failed grubs and outcasts and keep them there.  A secondary hierarchy would form under him.  <i>His nest</i>.

Naturally, they would not be a burden.  Torani would hunt nightly to feed his family while still contributing to the larger family.  Maybe Serana could hunt with him.  No.  That was too hopeful.  She would never agree to that with the way things stood.

Unless, in the future, she stepped too far out of place.  Azehralia would still want her around in case the nest ever got raided.  It would only make sense to move Serana down to Torani’s nest.  Surely, they would make up when that happened.  Yes.  Somehow, it would all work out.

Torani’s desires crept across the line from daydreaming into scheming.  That evening, he awoke mouthing explanations to the queen.  Arguments to justify his nest.  He stumbled on the words, “Ilen rejects the broken ones.”  That brought him back to cold reality.

He glanced at the thick, cloudy white cocoon.  His conviction that Azehralia would understand waned.  A slow sigh.  Stretching stiffly, he rose to his feet.  Pins and needles riddled in his wings.  A charlie horse raced through his neck.  What a start to the night!

As he rubbed his aches, a twitching movement caught his eye.  The cocoon had shivered.  Torani checked his expectations.  It had moved before.  Every time, nothing had—Another shiver.  A third in quick succession.  <i>That</i> was new.  Torani moved closer.

The rhythmic pulsing continued.  A shadowy spot appeared on the rubbery case.  The silhouette of a hand clawing at it.  Trying to get out.  Torani reached forward to help.  Stopped.  Best to wait.  The soon-to-be worker would figure it out.  They always did.

From the outside, the escape attempt looked coordinated and thoughtful.  Inside, Hook-Nose panicked.  Underwater.  Drowning.  Layers of slimy filth held his body down.  What should have been frantic scraping slowed to pathetic pawing in the viscous solution.  Where was the sand?!

It dawned on him that he had not needed to breathe under the sand.  Why would he need to breathe underwater?  His fear eased.  There was time to be methodical about this.

He picked at the rubbery goo, peeling off curled shavings.  Placed both palms against it.  His prison allowed little give.  Whatever it was, it was thick.  He felt around, seeking a weak spot.  A horizontal crease appeared every foot or so.  Something like seams.

One seam felt more pliable.  Thinner.  He dug his claws in, pulling out handfuls of rubbery gel.  The loose chunks brushed against his arms and face.  His fingers scraped against a new layer.  It was harder.  A sturdy membrane under tension.  His nails were too dull to cut it.

His arms drifted down aimlessly.  What now?  What other sharp things did he have?  He ran his tongue over his teeth.  A new plan in mind, Hook-Nose squirmed until he freed his torso enough to lean forward.

He struggled to pull the membrane close to his mouth.  Whenever he went for it, he bit down on goo chunks instead.  Furious, he snapped at it like a rabid dog.  He got lucky and caught the membrane’s edge, slicing it.

Viscous fluid blebbed out of the small tear.  Hook-Nose pulled it wider.  The case crumpled as its contents gushed out.  Soon, it was only held up by Hook-Nose’s back.  Air, sweet air filled the space.  He tried to gasp it in but choked out fluid instead.  Out of his lungs.  Out of his stomach.  Finally, there was room for oxygen.  Dizzy, he eased back to rest.  He had missed breathing.

Closing his eyes, he thought back to get his bearings.  He remembered the bone sand.  He remembered Four-Fingers, Digger, and Scar.  He had left the sand.  Yes.  He had climbed up the walls and escaped!  There were others up here.  Higher family members—He was a part of a family?  What did that mean?  It seemed important.

Anyway, he had slept there.  Then, he had been taken lower.  To here.  The winged one brought him here.  He had seen the winged one before then, but when or why was lost.  That was all he could remember.  He had no idea where the jelly prison had come from.

And he was still buried in slime from his waist down.  With the fluid gone, it was easily enough to rip the goo off.  As he revealed his lower body, he stared at it in confusion.  It looked wrong.  Too slim.  Too small.  Barely skin and bones.  He stared at his arms.  All his limbs looked terribly fragile.  He felt study though.

Reaching for the opening, he tried to rip it further.  No dice.  It was too well attached to something else.  Crawling through the existing hole was the only option.  He huffed.  He was tired and hungry and disgusting.  That was a weird new emotion.  <i>Disgust</i>.

Repositioning himself into a crouch, he realized his back was fine.  He was sure it had hurt before.  Well then.  This was a good start to his new life with the family.  He crawled halfway out of the slime casing to looked around.  Since when could he see anything in this level of darkness?  The tunnel was so clear.

A figure came into focus next to him.  Another family member.  He perked up, excited to see the winged one’s familiar face.  Until he realized what the winged one was: something ranked <i>way</i> above him.  Hook-Nose had no right to be in such a being’s presence.  He shot back into the cocoon husk, where it was safe.

Gently, “No, no, it’s okay.  Come on out.”

Hook-Nose realized the sounds as words.  Commands he was expected to obey.  Now, if only understood them!  A hand reached into the cocoon.  Afraid, Hook-Nose wanted to bite.  His instincts scolded him to stay still.  To accept whatever happened.  Whether reward or punishment, he surely deserved it.

As soon as Torani touched his shoulder, Hook-Nose relaxed.  He was not in trouble.  How did he know that?  Never mind.  Torani tugged him forward.  That command made sense.  Hook-Nose carefully crept out of the cocoon.

“There you are,” Torani said.  He picked goo bits from Hook-Nose’s fuzzy skull.  “Well… you look okay.  That’s a good start.”  The failed prince placed his hands on the red spots along Hook-Nose’s wrists.  Momentary anxiety when Hook-Nose recognized the scar on Torani’s arm.  It triggered a flash memory of his teeth sinking into that flesh.

Torani was being kind though.  That mistake must have been forgiven.  Just like Four-Fingers had forgiven Hook-Nose for—what had he done to her?  Never mind.  He was forgiven.  That was all that mattered.

Torani looked to the tunnel entrance as if he were expecting someone.  He looked nervous.  It made Hook-Nose nervous too.  Pulling him closer, Torani whispered into his ear, “Your name is ‘Rek.’”  The command meant nothing until Torani looked him in the eyes and said the word again.  “Rek.”  

A twinge of sudden understanding.  Oh.  Rek was <i>him</i>.  And Rek belonged to the royal staring at him.  Okay, that would be fine.  In fact, he was downright content with it.  Not that he had much choice in the matter.

Torani tapped his forehead against Rek’s.  “I can’t believe I’m doing this.  You know, Rek, this might be my last night.” He swallowed hard and glanced back again.  “But it was your only shot.  Ilen will kill you!  If there is any chance I can protect you from her, then I’ll risk anything to try.” Torani pulled Rek onto his lap.  “So long as I’m here, I’ll keep you safe.”  He eased out a rough breath.  The tension in his shoulders relaxed.  “I would do <i>anything</i> for my family.”

Rek’s mood shifted in pace with Torani’s.  If his royal was happy, then the world was good.  Filled with comfort and calm.  Also, escaping the gel prison was exhausting.  Amazingly, he was more tired than hungry.  Rek settled in.  They both dozed off.
