Murderous screeching echoed through the pit.  Torani jolted awake.  Shot to his feet.  Sent Rek rolling on the ground.  Vaeilentha charged into the cocooning den.  Torani blocked the tunnel with his arms and wings to keep Rek safe.  Rek was not the target though.

Vaeilentha grabbed Torani and slammed him into a wall.  Her black fangs extended.  Her alluring, sweet breath polluted and putrefied the air.  She finally put together the words, “Why.  Are you.  Here?”

Through bared teeth, “He’s mine.”

Shocked wide eyes.  Slack-jawed disbelief.  Nails swiped at his face.  A solid hit.  Her hand went to his stomach to gut him.  He caught her wrist.  Twisted it.  Spun her around.  Pinned her face to rock.  Teeth to neck.  The imagined extasy of draining her dry.  Reducing her to food.  A poetic taste of her own medicine.

His mouth refused to bite.

Her wings fluttered in his face, startling him.  She broke free.  Whirled around.  Pounced on him.  Snapped at his throat.  Only grazed him.  He held her back by the shoulders.  Her teeth sank into his wrist.  He threw her to the ground.  A grub’s primal buzzgrowl roared out of him.

She returned call, rising to her feet unphased.  He fell back a step.  Feinted towards her.  She fell for it.  As she stumbled past him, he got hold of her again.  Pin to wall.  Teeth to neck.  Just.  Press.  Down.  He could do it this time.  It was for Rek!  He just had to—

Serana ripped Torani’s head back.  “DON’T YOU DARE!”

The failed prince whipped around, giving another buzzgrowl.  A glint of fear in her eyes.  He had not meant to do that.  Not to her.  His arms dropped limply to his sides.  Vaeilentha saw her moment.  Snatched his hair.  Snapped his head back.  He fell to his knees.  She raised two fingers like talons over his eyes.

Demeko pushed between them, shoving Torani into Serana.  Serana easily tackled Torani to the ground.  He had already given up.  Vaeilentha tried to slip past Demeko.  He bullied her into the wall.  She emitted another buzzgrowl.  He held firm.  Queen’s will would not falter.  Stalemate achieved.

Rotero stalked into the tunnel.  “Whatever this is, it’s over,” he hissed.  “The queen says it’s over.”

Vaeilentha struggled against Demeko’s grasp.  “That filth deserves—!”

“E-NOUGH!”

Vaeilentha fought harder to escape.  Rotero grabbed her neck.  Squeezed hard.  She stilled, glaring through a wince.  He released her slowly.  His fingers left marks.

She roughly cleared her throat as she rubbed at it.  “Knight, did you truly just—?"
 
“Delivered for the queen.  <i>With love.</i>  Pull yourself together, princess.”

After another ragged breath, Vaeilentha exhaled smoothly.  She glanced at the worker.  He cowered behind the cocoon’s remains.  “I came here to claim my rising knight.  I intend to do so.”

“As is your right.  Demeko, leave her be.”

Demeko’s expression was conflicted, but he cautiously released Vaeilentha.  She brushed imaginary dirt from her dress.  Once that show was complete, she leisurely walked to the worker.  Kneeling, she pulled the cocoon away.  She reached out for Rek.

He ducked from her hand.

“Shhh, it’s okay.  No more fighting.  No more loud noises.”  She tilted his head up.  “This wasn’t the best start for us, was it?  No worries.  We’ll have plenty of time to make up for this little mishap.”  Her fingertips reached the spots on his neck.  His expression faded to dull compliancy.  “My rising knight.”

A half-swallowed growl rumbled out of Torani.  Vaeilentha looked back at him long enough to roll her eyes.  She tapped her forehead to Rek’s.  “I’ve decided.  Your name is ‘Ven.’”  Rek looked confused.  “Ven.” She increased the electrical sentiment of identity.

He replied, “Rek.”

“What?”  The princess furrowed her brows.  Shook her head.  “No, lovely.  VEEEEN.”

“Rek.”

Her mouth twitched.  “Say.  Ven.”

“R-rek.”

Torani choked out a bemused snort.  It was the best he could manage with all the pheromones in the air.  Wheezing, “His name is Rek, Ilen.  He’s mine.” Though Vaeilentha turned her head to stare at Torani, she seemed to not see him.

Rotero whispered to Serana, “Take him to the queen’s chambers.  <i>Now</i>.”

Serana had herself and Torani on their feet in a flash.  At the entrance, she shoved him at the wall.  He nearly stumbled into the pit.  As she scurried up the rocks, he ascended slowly.  His ears trained on the commotion below.  He paused when Vaeilentha began incessantly screaming the nonsense syllable that was not Rek’s name.

“TORANI.  MOVE IT.”

“R-right, sorry.”  Torani diligently caught up to Serana.

She grabbed his shirt collar.  “Are you insane?!”

“’The rules are kind of bullshit if they can’t enforce them,’ right?”

“Rani, you’re going to fucking die for this.”

“It was worth the risk.”

“What?!”

“You have no idea how much he needs me.  How bad I want him, Rana.  I couldn’t—”

Indignant chatter below.  Rotero ordering Vaeilentha to leave the den.  Serana looked to them, then back at Torani.  “If you somehow don’t die tonight, you have a hell of a lot of explaining to do!”  

“Okay...”

Serana punched his shoulder before scrambling to the queen’s balcony.  Torani followed.  As he crawled onto the balcony, Vaeilentha landed beside him.  She shoved him back.  His foot slipped off the landing, but he held onto the railing.  She spat at him and stormed into the queen’s chambers.

Demeko and Rotero reached the balcony next.  Rek was in Demeko’s arms.  Rek’s eyes darted around, taking in everything.  As far as he would remember, he would have never seen anything like this.  It would all be wonderful and bright.  Torani smiled.  Whatever wonder Rek felt now would mean nothing once he reached hunter.

The outside world was dazzling.  Especially everything the food created.  Tall buildings.  Flickering lights.  Toys and contraptions.  Torani hoped he had been an architect before he joined the family.  That he had somehow contributed to those marvelous constructs…  What a useless thing to worry about when he might die in the next few minutes.

Nails sank into Torani’s arm.  Vaeilentha dragged him into the queen’s chambers.  The doors slammed behind them.

He should have been terrified.  Instead, he calmly scanned the area.  He had no memories of this place.  It was massive.  High ceilings.  Rows of doors to either side.  An expertly carved stone staircase led down on the right.  They stood on finished wood flooring under a candle-lit chandelier of polished glass and metal scraps.

Though the decorations bore an aesthetic of found objects and reclaimed trash, they were beautiful.  Torani had not realized the workers possessed this level of craftsmanship.  Evidently, the queen also envied the food’s dwellings.

The foyer’s back was cruder though.  Three rough tunnel openings.  One split in two further down.  Space for another nest in and of itself. <i> A subnest</i>.  Was that the queen’s doing?  Or Vaeilentha’s?

The princess yanked Torani towards the stairs.  Her grasp forced him to crabwalk down the steps.  He tripped near the bottom.  Vaeilentha let go of him.  He face planted onto the checkerboard patterned floor.

Picking himself up, he saw a red smear staining the tile.  He wiped his face.  It stung.  His hand came away streaked with blood.  He had forgotten Vaeilentha had gouged him when they were fighting.  He had not felt it until then.

Before him, three couches sat on a powder blue plush rug.  Azehralia reclined on one.  Vaeilentha placed herself at vehement attention on another.  Behind them stood ornate doors to other rooms.  The swirls and curlicues carved into the door and furniture were on par with anything the food made.  

Were these stolen goods?  He had thought workers lacked the intellect for artistic expression.  If they had built everything in here, though, then Torani regretted being a failed prince instead of a failed hunter.  He would have been happy creating things like this.

“Torani.”  The queen waved him closer.  “Please join us.”

With a nod, he rose to his feet.  Ignoring the open seats, he stood at the far corner behind Vaeilentha’s couch.  It forced her to crane her neck to shoot him dirty looks.

Azehralia exhaled smoothly.  “Now.  Calmly explain what happened.”

“He’s stealing from me!” Vaeilentha spat out.  “That malformed abomination named him.  Fought me over him.  Claims my knight is his!”

“<i>Failed</i> knight,” Torani corrected.

“What?”

“He’s going to be a <i>failed</i> knight.”

Vaeilentha shot to her feet.  “What did you do to him!?”

“Vaeilentha, please.  Sit.”  Azehralia waited until the princess complied.  “What do you mean, Torani?”

“You already know I had to move him from the worker’s den to the ascension layer.  That he had already started cocooning.  There was so much blood left behind.”

A long pause.  “I had not been informed you moved him.”

“I thought—” Torani licked his lips.  “I’m sorry.  Serana finished the clean-up for me.  I assumed she told Demeko and Rotero about it.  I should have realized that detail might get lost.  I should have made sure you knew.  I haven’t been—” Admitting that he was thinking clearly was a bad idea.  “You know something similar happened to me when I was ascending to worker.”

Vaeilentha hissed, “If you ruined him—"

Azehralia cut her off with a raised hand.  “What happened to you, Torani, was different.  We’ve moved grubs before.  They turned out fine.  We don’t know why you failed, but—”

“It’s not just that, Zehra!  He was dropped at initiation, damaging his spine.  He was mangled by the failed worker.  Everything that could go wrong—”

The queen held up a finger.  “Do not interrupt me.”

“I’m sorry.”  Torani bowed his head.

“Forgiven.”  The queen laced her fingers together.  “All of that together is somewhat concerning.  However, that has nothing to do with your behavior.  Explain.”

“If he’s damaged, Ilen won’t want him.”

“That’s not your place to decide,” the princess said without looking at him.  “He’s still mine.  Damaged or not.”

“You won’t want him!  You don’t even want me!”

“Your rank is hardly your worst flaw, knight prince.”

Torani looked away.  That was a lie.  He was raised to be hers.  Raised to die for her.  For their nest.  He did <i>everything</i> right.  He had no say in failing to ascend.  The rest of him was fine!  Right?

“Even if he’s a failed knight, it’s still better than a hunter,” Vaeilentha mused.  She considered it further.  “But I can be fair.  If one of the other grubs proves to be a knight—a good one—then I would be willing to let you play with this one.  Assuming our queen allows you that gross violation of privilege.  How does that sound?”

“He won’t take me back if you taint him with your toxins!”

The queen opened her mouth in disbelief.  Before she could respond, Vaeilentha said, “’Toxins?’  You mean my pheromones?  That’s my privilege.  I can claim whoever I want, whenever I want.  You may claim no one.  It’s not your place!”

“I DON’T HAVE A PLACE BECAUSE OF YOU!”

“SILENCE,” Azehralia hissed.  Even the princess wilted.  Suddenly woozy, Torani, held onto the couch for balance.  The concentration of chemicals in the air spiked.

The queen’s rage melted into a cough.  She covered her mouth with her fist, trying to suppress further coughing.  Breathing slowly and deeply, she regained her poise.  “First, I will not hear you speak like that again, Torani.  Unifying the family is a queen’s duty.  Whatever method we use to establish it, is our privilege.  You will not speak ill of it again.”

Torani nodded.

Azehralia sighed deeply.  “I don’t understand this in the slightest.  I gave you a chance, Torani.  I let you find your place in my family.  And you repay me by sabotaging my dream for a sister nest.  What made you think this was acceptable?!”

“It’s because I’m a part of your family, Zehra.  I can’t stand it.  I can’t watch you gift him away when he’ll be disposed of!”  Tears stung his eyes.  “I’ll stop.  If she promises, I’ll stop.  If she swears she won’t kill him when he fails, I’ll back down.”

Vaeilentha’s tone was flat.  “I owe you nothing.”

The room’s mood shifted.  It drew heavier.  Darker.  Azehralia sat up, her gaze leveling on Vaeilentha.  The princess shrank back in her seat.  “Let’s take this as a learning experience for both of us, darling.  You misunderstand prince’s privileges.  They do not stake claim as we do, but they absolutely feel ownership of the family.  How could they not?  Their family would not exist without them.

“I was aware that princes can become overly concerned for their parent family.  Granted, Torani was more disruptive about it than I would like.  A little forewarning about his plans would have been nice.”

“Zehra, I didn’t know I was going to do it until I—"

One finger to silence him.  “However, I made you a promise, Vaeilentha.  One I intend to keep.  Unfortunately, I don’t believe Torani can handle the situation as it stands.  I do not like violence.  I would prefer not to execute a family member who has been an asset thus far.  I want to make you a new offer, if you’re willing to entertain it.”

Vaeilentha cleared her throat.  “I-I’m listening.”

“Would you be willing to take a gamble on both of the remaining grubs?”

“<i>Both</i> of them?”

“Perhaps they are knights.  Perhaps they are only workers.  Regardless of the outcome, I believe they will be of greater value to you then a knight, who, whether he fails or not, has had a difficult start.”

Vaeilentha nodded slowly.  Torani willed her to say yes.  It looked like she might ask something but reconsidered.  She sighed, “It’s not my place to advise you on how to lead your famil—”

“Indeed, it’s not.”

“Then I’ll graciously accept your new offer.”

The queen eased back into her spot.  “Thank you.  You and I have nothing more to discuss then.  If you will see yourself out, I still have other matters to address.” Her gaze settled on Torani.  Vaeilentha made her exit without further production.

When the echoing footsteps faded, Azehralia motioned for Torani to sit.  He did so quickly and stiffly directly across from her.  “So.  The worker will remain in our family.  You know I’ll keep him, failure or not.  Why do I feel like the matter isn’t settled yet?”

“Because you know me too well.”  It was meant as a joke, but it hurt.  Torani covered his face with his hands.  It was sticky with blood.  When he dropped them again, he shrugged helplessly.  “My instincts are screaming for me to start the new nest, Zehra.  I know I can’t, but it’s all I want.  And he’s broken like I am.  It makes sense for him to be mine!”

“No.  Your options are to be part of my family or accept death.”

“I’m not asking to leave the nest!”  He slid off the couch to kneel before her.  “I know I belong to you.  I’m not trying to change that.  I just want him.  He’ll still be yours.  Everything I own is yours!  Just let me be between him and you.  Let me feel like I’m doing what I’m supposed to do as a prince.  Not as a knight.  Not as a hunter.  Not as whatever role I take up in the name of this family.  I want to be what I was supposed to be.  Please let me do this.”

“Do you understand what you’re asking of me?”

“Just for Rek.  No one else.  This will never happen again.”

The queen repeated “Rek,” her tone unreadable.  “I suppose the damage has already been done.”  She sighed.  “Fine.  If it gives you a stronger sense of place, then you may spend time with him.”

“Zehra, I—”

“With the understanding that this occurs only after both your and his duties are complete.  And his next syllable must be approved by me.”

“Yes, of course.  I can’t begin to explain what this means to me.”

“To me it means a happier and well-adjusted you.  Do not defy my expectations.  Do not ask for further privileges.”

Torani bowed until his forehead touched the floor.  “I’ll prove you made the right choice.”

“Then you’re dismissed.  Stay away from Rek until I make limits of our arrangement clear to the rest of the family.”  She stood wearily.  “I’ll need time to figure out how to explain it.  That this is your one and only exception in the hierarchy.”  The queen made her way to one of the back rooms.

Torani did not stand until the door closed.  Shaking, not believing his victory’s magnitude, he shambled to the staircase as if drunk.  He clung to the wall as he climbed the steps.  Reaching the top stair felt unreal.

A flash of movement.  Stinging as Vaeilentha’s nails raked across his cheek.  “You know you earned that.”

Torani nodded despite himself.

“The only reason I’m not ripping you to shreds is your stupidity earned me a greater prize.  How does that make you feel?  To know your game backfired?”

“I had a feeling that, if I lived, she might make that offer.”  He shrugged.  “It’s fine.”

Disbelief and suspicion etched into her features.  She crossed her arms.  “What did I miss?”

“What?”

“You think you’ve won.  Fine.  Enlighten me.  What’s so special about that worker?”

“Nothing, Ilen.  I just don’t want you to kill him.”

“So, you’re trying to get back at me?”

“It has nothing to do with you.”  Torani quick-walked to the exit.

“Everything you do is about me.  And, to be honest, I’m getting sick of you undermining me.  Wasn’t it enough that you refused to give me the one thing I needed from you?”

Torani spun back around.   “I didn’t choose to fail you, Ilen!  I would have done anything for you.  I would have helped you start the new nest as just your knight.  But all you want is petty vengeance!  Do think my death will somehow make your nest happen faster?  It won’t.  It won’t even make you feel better.”

“So… if I offered that to you now, to come with me, you’d take it?”  She held her arms open.

“That…”  Yes.  A million time <i>yes</i>.  Of course that was his gut response.  One conditioned by electrical and chemical manipulation.  By his hard-wired instincts.  No.  He had Rek now.  Rek was his priority.  Rek, who did not truly belong to him.  Who, alone, did not make a nest.  Who was a flimsy bandage over a hemorrhaging wound.  “I…”  Torani cleared his throat.  “Do you know what the difference is between a prince and a princess?”

“Besides the fact that there is no prince present in this room?”

“The family dies in the name of its princess—its queen.  A prince dies in the name of the family.”

“And?”

“If you don’t get it, I’m not going to explain it.”  Torani turned back to the exit.

Vaeilentha stepped to his side.  “Let me relieve you of your ignorance.  I <i>hate</i> seeing you in this much pain.  I don’t seek your death out of vengeance, Torani.  It’s a mercy.  I know the torture you’re under.  I’ve waited over two decades for my time to come.  But I’ll have my family in the end.  You.  Never.  Will.  You will always suffer.”

“I would have be content helping you.”

“And then what?  I don’t know who I’ll be once I ascend.  Will I be as clear-headed as I am now?  Or will I fall prey to the same sentimentality that plagues Azehralia?  Would I have the strength to end you when the time came?  Or would I watch you shrivel in silent agony for the rest of eternity?  What do you think?”

“I don’t want to die.”

“I know.  Because you’re a knight, not a prince.”  She laughed bitterly.  “This has been a cruel joke played on both of us.”  A sigh.  She leaned against Torani.  He was torn between wanting to shove her away and lean into her.  “Torani, I’m tired of this.  It <i>is</i> petty.  If you stop giving me dirty looks and making snide remarks, I’ll leave you alone.”

“A truce then?”

“If that’s what you want to call it.”  She reached up to his face.  Met his eyes.  “In return, I just need you to come to me when you’re ready to die.  I won’t jeer.  No ‘I told you so.’  I’ll simply be the relieved that you‘re ready to stop suffering.  Deal?”

Torani wanted to blame everything he felt on pulses.  On pheromones.  On ghosts of memories best forgotten.  Those excuses were lies.  And he knew it.  He wrapped his arms around her, burying his face in her neck.  That an hour before he was trying to kill her almost made him laugh.

“Fine.  Deal.” He had forgotten how soft her hair felt.  How lean, yet powerful, her frame was.  He stumbled back.  “But I will never want it.  I’m figuring out how to have my own family.  Once I do, whatever I suffered to get there will be worth it.”

Vaeilentha walked to the exit.  She placed her hands on the doorknobs.  Without looking back, she said, “Your futile hope, knowing it will be crushed, makes me very sad for you.”  The doors opened and closed behind her.

The foyer felt empty in the silence.  Torani’s knees buckled.  He stared into space.  He was alive.   Rek was his.  Somehow, he was at peace with Vaeilentha.  And, above all else, he had lied to the queen and gotten away with it.  It had been so easy.  Afterall, a prince’s priority was his family.  Not the queen.
