Over the next week, Torani hunted doggedly, bringing back a victim every night.  He had to justify himself.  Prove that he deserved the privilege he had been granted.  Or at least he felt that way.

The workers dutifully followed his orders as if nothing had changed.  If the hunters had an opinion, they had enough sense to keep it to themselves.  Rotero remained neutral as ever.  Demeko’s silent stance was apparent from his empty stares.

Vaeilentha had made good on her promise though.  She had taken to ignoring Torani’s existence.  Even better, she no longer lavished spiteful affection on Kordi in his presence.  That proved she had only done it to upset him, but that was not the point.  The animosity between them had ended.
  
However, only one opinion mattered: Serana’s.  An opportunity to talk with her alone had thus far eluded Torani.  He liked to blame it on Demeko’s presence.  Never mind that Demeko spent very little time by the cage these days.  In truth, Torani was terrified of explaining himself to her.  Every night, he passed a victim to her with a guilty smile and explained that he had to visit Rek.

Those visits were underwhelming.

The older workers understood that when Torani appeared he wanted to see Rek.  They would nudge Rek to approach Torani.  Most nights, Rek would turn around and run back.  It was frustrating.  An electrical pulse would make Rek join him.  One little zapped command.  That would be fine, right?

It would not be his first.  Rek got a taste pulses when he was ascending.  And again to name him.  A third pulse to make Rek understand Torani’s wishes would be harmless.  That logic was also the gateway to manipulating Rek into becoming exactly what Torani wanted.  Just like Vaeilentha had done to him.

So, Torani kept his hands to himself.  He accepted Rek’s instinctual fear of royals.

Slowly, his patience paid off.  That night, it took only one shove for Rek to stumble towards Torani.  The worker sat down a safe distance away instead of running.  Unfortunately, he was still relearning how to string words together into meaningful sentences.  He managed “Knight Prince Torani” as a mumbled greeting.  That was about it.  It would be weeks before Torani could talk with him.  Even then, conversations with Rek would be basic and concrete.

For now, the two sat in silence on the spiral while the other workers picked up their tools and scraps.  To pass time, Torani made a game of trying to catch Rek in eye contact.  Rek seemed confused by the game but not frightened.

It was a far cry from the adoring stares Torani had hoped for.  Still, it was a step up from last night, when Rek ignored him to push a poorly hammered nail further into the walkway.  Technically, it was a milestone.  Torani tried to appreciate it.

Another worker timidly stepped up.  Ru.  Though most of his scars had healed, Torani recognized him from the bone sands.  Seeing him gave Torani a twinge of validation.  His judgement had been good for the nest.  It was a bonus that that Ru and Rek had formed a friendship.

Ru tapped Rek on the shoulder.  It was time for them to retire to the worker’s den.  Rek looked pointedly at Torani, waiting for dismissal.  Torani sighed and smiled weakly.  He reached out to ruffle the fuzz on Rek’s skull.  Rek ducked.  Realizing his disobedience, his eyes widened.

Torani retracted his hand.  “You’re okay.  If you don’t like, then you don’t like it.  You’re not in trouble.  Go on.”  Torani waved him off.  Rising to his feet, Rek followed Ru down the spiral to join the others.  The oldest worker was on his way into the den.  What was his name?  “Les!  Come here.”  

The worker startled.  He scampered back up the walkway to meet the failed prince.  Kneeling into a bow, he said, “Knight-Prince.  How may I serve you?”

“Do me a favor: don’t put Rek on any work in the queen’s chambers.  I don’t want him in there unless it’s absolutely necessary.  Find other things for him to do.”

“Yes, Knight-Prince.”  His tone was laced with confusion and uncertainly.

“I assume my request doesn’t contradict the queen’s orders.”

“No.  It doesn’t.”

“Then thank you in advance.”  He touched the worker’s neck.  A quick reward pulse.  Les’ hesitation was forgotten.  “Go on and sleep now.”  As Les stumbled back to worker’s den, Torani looked down at his hand.

Pulses were nothing new to Les.  Workers were not rewarded often, but he was old enough that it would feel routine to him.  Did that make it okay?  Torani’s indecision on pulse morality was not what truly bothered him though.  It was that he used them without thinking.  It was as natural as breathing.

Dragging himself to his feet, Torani drifted up the spiral towards his den.  Reaching it, he slithered into his feather mound.  Laying suspended in them was the worst part of his night.  Without a task to keep his mind busy, he felt disconnected.  Alone.

He should have talked to Serana.  He would have genuinely enjoyed her company.  Rek had nothing to offer him right now.  If he had ignored Rek in the first place, he would be closer to her.  He never would have avoided her!  Except, given another chance, he knew would make the same decisions.

He could fix the present though.  Tomorrow, he would talk to Serana.  A resolution bolstered by the same conviction he felt every morning.  A conviction that would disappear when he looked at her.

Imagining ways to approach her, he fell into vague, fitful dreaming.  Something about expectations.  About not meeting them.  Things being taken away from him.  Threats to do worse.  His inability to please who-or-what-ever’s demands.  The dark shadow of—

A sharp blow to the stomach winded Torani.  Suddenly half-consciousness.  Before he could respond, something dug into his knee.  Pressure across his body.  How could this be?  What stupid thing dared come after him?!  With a growl, his hands shot up to grapple his assailant.  A higher pitched growl replied.  Teeth nipped at his hand.

“S-Serana!?”  He choked on a mouthful of feathers.

She uncovered his face.  “Are we on a three-syllable basis again?”

“No?  Are you really here, Rana?”

“Don’t ask stupid questions, Rani.”

“But aren’t you angry with me?”

“Oh, I am.  Impatience got the better of me.  And maybe curiosity.”  She repositioned herself so her knees and elbows stopped digging into Torani’s guts.  Her head bumped the ceiling in the process.  She hummed at it in disapproval.  “Your den is tiny, by the way.”

“Princes aren’t supposed to stay long.”

“Oh.  Are they supposed to be cowards then?  That’s certainly not a knight trait.”

“I’m not a coward.”

“Then why are you still avoiding me?”

Torani flinched.  “It’s not… I was…  I wanted to talk to you.  I wanted to apologize.  But I don’t know what to say.  Rek is…  Ilen couldn’t have him.  I was willing to risk myself for that.  But not you.”

“Where exactly do I come into that rambling?”

“So long as you didn’t know what I was doing, you were safe.  I didn’t want to be responsible for you—"

She silenced him with a finger on his lips.  “Who is responsible for me?”

A sigh.  “You are.  I know.”  He turned his head away.  “I also was afraid you might stop me.”

After a moment of consideration, she nodded.  “That’s fair.  I’m not keen on seeing you get your stupid self killed.  Then again, I think I know better than to try and stop you.  Anyway, that explains before.  Why are you avoiding me now?”

Mumbling, “Because I’m a coward.”

“Afraid of…?”

“You deciding to never speak to me again.”

“So, you wanted guarantee that by not trying?”

“It wasn’t one of my better plans.”

“Planning ain’t your wheelhouse, Rani.  But!  You got away with treason.  You—”  She thumped her head on the den’s ceiling and swore at it.  “This isn’t working.  Move over.”

“Or… you could just lay there.  There’s space if you stay flat.”

Serana gave him a wry smile.  He huffed and edged to the side.  She rolled off him and wriggled into the feathers.  “Oh, this is so much nicer than my bed.  Why do you get all this, you slacker!?”

“Bare rock hurts my wings.”

Giving a wide stretch, she sighed.  “I could get used to this.”  Her gaze sharpened.  “So.  You have some explaining to do.”

“I don’t know where to begin.  I don’t want to justify risking everything for Rek.  How can I explain what he means to me?”

“Listen, I get it.  You’re momma duck, and he’s baby duck, and you’re both ducks.  It had to happen.”

“Ducks?”

“Yeah, like quack, quack.”

“That means absolutely—What are you then?”

“Me?  I’m a <i>snake</i>.”

“Snakes eat ducks.”

“Exactly.”  She hissed at him.

“You’re crazy.”  He chuckled despite himself.  “You have no idea how much I’ve missed you.”

“Maybe don’t ignore me next time.”

“I won’t.  But if you already get why I needed Rek, then what’s left to say?”

“How.  Did you.  Get away with it?”

“Zehra said princes get… overprotective of their family.  Given that, what I did, why I did it, was reasonable.”

“So, Kordi’s also going to go nuts when her wings grow in?  Great.”

A memory of the queen coughing echoed in his thoughts.  “I think it was an excuse.  You were right.  She can’t lose anyone.  Even the broken ones.  I think she was angry we killed the bad grub because she was going to keep it.  Maybe we can get away with anything.”

“<i>I was right</i>…”  Serana’s brow furrowed.  “That’s not really a good thing.”  She shrugged it off.  “Ah well.  It is what it is.”

“So… am I forgiven?”

“You done keeping secrets from me?”

“I’m fresh out.”

“And when you stumble into the next one?”

“I don’t intend to.”  Serana’s mouth set in a thin straight line.  Torani’s shoulders hunched.  “Yes, I’ll tell you.”

“Forgiven.”  Her fingers danced though the feathers.  “Speaking of breaking rules though, I’ll be staying here tonight.”

“In my cramped den?”

“I’ll make do.”  She rolled away from him.

“Can I…?”

“Can you…?”

He bit his lip.  Perhaps it was easier to ask for forgiveness than permission.  Edging closer to Serana, he cautiously wrapped a hand around her waist.  She scootched back into him.  His grip around her tightened as he buried his face in her hair.  Like he used to do with Vaeilentha.  He banished the thought.  This was different.  Serana smelled like sweat and earth instead of chemical attractants.

He propped himself on up his elbow to lean over her.  “Do you mind if I…?”

“Mind if you…?”  She rolled her eyes while Torani tried to convince himself to just do it.  She yanked him down into a quick, rough kiss.  “That?  Sure.  Hope that went how you wanted.”

“Not in the slightest…”

“If you want to be romantic, then stop wasting my time with stupid questions you’re not even asking.  Coward.”

“Fine.  We’ll do it your way.”  He pressed his lips to hers.  A genuine kiss this time.  Something simple.  Uncomplicated.  Without expectations or conflicting emotions.  With a contented smile, he rested his forehead against hers.  “You have no idea how long I’ve wanted to do that.”

“I can guess.”

His smile faded.  “Please don’t.”  He settled back on his side, basking in her presence.  In having her to himself if just for the day.  One day would never be enough.  “I want to tell you about my crazy dream.”

“You have normal dreams?”

A huff.

“All right, all right.  Let’s hear some treasonous prince madness.”

“You and Rek could be the family I want so badly.  We could leave and start a new nest.”

Serana rolled to look at him.  “You want to what?”

“I-it’s just a dream.  The only good one I have anymore.  But hypothetically, if I <i>did</i> leave… I can carry Rek with me.  But… would you come too?”

“It’s your dream.”

“But if it were real, would you come with me?”

“And, so, what?  You want me to be your Rotero or something?”

“No, you’d be my Rana.”

“That sounds about the same.”

“If it’s your plan to turn into Rotero, then you can stay.”

She stifled a full-bodied laugh.  “Ouch, Rani.  Right in the gut.  You know what?  Sure.  I can tag along in your dream.  I got demands though.  The ambiance here leaves a lot to be desired.  I’m thinking… more food, more lights, and way fewer rules.  Also, I want a mountain of these.”  She picked up a handful of feathers and blew them at Torani’s face.

“I think I can make that happen.”

“Good.  Hop to it!”  She clapped twice.  Her playful expression faded.  “You know, I wouldn’t mind seeing the sky again.  I miss the stars.”

That was closest he would get to a real answer from her.  “With me, you could see them every night…”

“Until we got our stupid selves killed.”  Serana rolled over.  Torani wanted to say more but held his tongue.  It was time savor the moment while he had it.  Curling back around her, he drifted into dreamless sleep.
