After months of non-stop hunting, Torani had earned a break.  It was well past sunset, but he was still in his den.  Serana’s scent had become a permanent fixture there.  For the first time, his hole in the wall felt like home.  Between her and Rek, the urge to start a nest had eased.

It still whispered to him though.  Once he figured out how to leave with his family, that would silence it for good.  Until then, a visit with Rek would help.

Crawling out of his den, he poured onto the landing.  Falling onto the bridge completed his wake-up ritual.  Funny how that routine had started as an accident.

When his wings initially grew in, they burned and itched if they touched anything.  One night, he scraped them against his den’s exit tunnel.  Scrambling to escape the pain, he threw himself over the landing and into the pit.  The bridge caught his fall.  Once the adrenalin wore off, he decided he enjoyed the trip down.  He did it the next night.  And the one after that.

Once, Demeko scolded him for it.  Told him the bridge was not designed to shoulder an impact like that.  Eventually, it would break.  That doubled Torani’s commitment to the act.  These nights, he only did it out of habit.  There was no reason to stop.  Demeko’s ominous warnings had been empty.  The bridge was as sturdy as ever.  The workers had not needed to repair it.

At top of the worker’s spiral, Torani crossed paths with Kordi.  Her expression was smiles and glee.  “Good evening, Knight-Prince!”

“Evening, Rising Prince.  I’m surprised you’re still in.”

“Ilen wanted to see me.  Why are you still here though?  You never leave this late.”

“I’m taking a night off.”

“From hunting?!  Why would you do that?”

“It’s different after you ascend.  It’s not what royals were meant to do.”

Kordi frowned.  “The royals actually <i>enjoy</i> standing around doing nothing?”

“Just as the workers enjoy building.”

“I’ll take your word for it.”  She hopped onto the wall.  “See you later!”

He waved as she darted up the wall.  A sigh escaped him.  <i>That</i> was what he wanted from Rek.  Easy, warm nonchalance around royals.  Better yet if Rek could be half as cheerful as Kordi when he ascended.  

Hunters were quietly respectful to royals.  But with one another they were vicious.  Bitter, cynical, ruthless.  The only time they smiled with each other was one outdid another.  Meanwhile, the worst he had seen from Kordi was disappointment that her fully ascended peers were less capable than she was.

Had he been that way as a hunter?  Cheery?  He doubted it.  His sparce memories suggested he was as bad tempered as any other hunter.  Except, unlike them, he was allowed to unleash it on the knights.  Was that a fundamental difference between Torani and Kordi as individuals?  Or was it a result of Vaeilentha changing tactics for raising princes?

As a worker, Kor built things.  She avidly hunted now.  He expected her to be dedicated knight.  And as a prince… Torani decided to leave it there.  He hoped his decision to let Rek to act his rank would lead to him being happy.  Well adjusted.  Those words felt off for some reason.  Torani descended the spiral.  

The workers were building a new walkway around the pit under their den.  It would prevent the grubs from climbing too high ever again.  Soon, they would add new cocooning dens just below the rim.  The queen wanted it all done before initiation next month.

Rek stood with Ru on the new rim by a ladder frame.  They were below the landing for the worker’s den, so Torani guessed it would soon connect the two.  As he approached, an argument faded in.

The workers disagreed on how many rungs to use.  Rek adamantly insisted on four.  Ru quietly suggested five was better.  The heat in Rek’s voice was uncharacteristic of a worker.  Interesting.  Torani crouched down on the spiral’s edge.  “Hey, Rek.”

Rek’s tone immediately shifted.  “Knight-Prince Torani.  Evening.”  Torani had failed to convince Rek to address him without his title.  Still, the warmth and strength in his voice made up for it.

“Can you talk with me?  It’s all right if you’re too busy.  Work comes first.”

Rek consulted Ru.  Ru shrugged.  Shaking his head, Rek turned to the wall.  Hesitated.  Looked back.  “FOUR.  Not five.”  He climbed the wall and sat beside Torani.  “I can talk now.  Once Ru finishes, we have other tasks though.”

“I understand.  How are things going?”

“Not great.  No one thought about the ladder when we built the walkway the supports.  The height between it and the landing is off.”

Clearly, Torani had asked the wrong question.  “I mean, how are you feeling?”

“Hungry.”

Torani snorted.  Figuring out what question to ask was always a challenge.  Before he could try again, Rek continued.

“I can’t get enough food anymore.  Everyone lets me take some of their share.  I feel bad.  I’m not supposed to get more than them.  And the extra isn’t enough.  I took all of Ru’s food last night.  He let me.  But he looked scared.  Was he afraid I would fight for it?  I would never do that!  We don’t fight.  I don’t…”  He licked his lips.  “I’m always hungry.”

Torani made a mental note to bring home more corpses and fewer live ones.  He raised his hand, hovering it in over Rek’s face.  “May I?”

Rek eyed it suspiciously.  His tone was contradictingly genial.  “Of course.”

Torani placed the back of his hand against Rek’s forehead.  It felt cool.  He dropped his hand with a sigh.  “You might be nearing ascension.  But you’re not quite there yet.”  Rek’s eyes focused on Torani’s, waiting for clarification.  “To become a hunter.  You remember that you were a grub before you were a worker, right?”

“Yes.  Sort of.  Not really.”

“The point is, it’s a good thing.  We’ll see more of each other after you ascend.  I intend to take you under my wing.  I’m the best at hunting.”

“Okay, but why would I be under your wing?”

“I mean I’ll teach you.”

Rek hummed approvingly.

“It’s good timing too.  I’ve been working on your hunter name.”

“What’s wrong with Rek?”

“It’s too short for a hunter!  Every time you ascend, you’ll get a new syllable.  It’s an honor.  A title in and of itself.”

“Okay… so, what will my hunter name be?”

“Errek.”  Torani swallowed.  He did not have the queen’s approval yet.

Rek mouthed the two syllables slowly.  His nose wrinkled.  “I like Rek better.”

Torani chuckled.  “You’re not ready for it.  You’ll want it once you ascend.”

Rek stared at his hands.  His fingers wiggled on both as if he was counting something.  Two somethings.  Comparing.  “Your name’s too short.”  Torani flinched.  “I’m-sorry-forget-I-said-anything.”

“No, Rek it’s…  I’ll explain it some other time.  Not right now.”

“All right…”

Torani nodded to Ru.  “It looks like the ladder is about done.  You should get back to work.  And, sorry, I think I see five rungs.”

Rek hissed out a hoarse sigh.  Muttered, “He never listens.”  There was power in his voice’s contemptuous conviction.  But that was not the attitude Torani wanted for Rek.

Placing a hand on Rek’s shoulder, “Ru is doing what he thinks is best.  If he’s wrong, show him why.  Be patient with him.”

“Yeah…”  His posture relaxed.  “That’s what I should do.”

“Can I get—?”  Rek had already pulled Torani into a hug.  Maybe it was just a reflex at this point, but Torani wanted to believe it was genuine affection.  He patted Rek’s back.  “Be good.  Build well.”

Rek nodded.  Slipped away.  Dropped onto the lower platform.  His one leg wobbled when he landed.  A sign weakness Torani had been pretending was not there.

Now what?

Torani scanned the pit walls.  Looked up to the edge.  He would love to waste the night talking to Serana.  That was not a safe option.  He would catch up with her before they slept.  What else could he do?  He fidgeted.  Sure, knights were content standing at their posts for their entire lives, but, apparently, princes were restless.  There had to be some work for him!

A light in the pit’s depths caught his eye.  What was that?  Torani hopped onto the lower platform and opened a hatch to climb down.  Once he was under the ascension layer, the light resolved into a lantern sitting on the bone sands.  That should not be there.

Descending further, he heard remaining grubs break into shrieking bought.  It ended quickly.  Eventually, he spotted a rope’s end.  He followed its length up to a dark spot on the wall across from him.

“Demeko?  What are you doing down here?”

“I could ask the same of you, Knight-Prince.”

“I saw the light and was worried it had been left by accident.”

“I’m watching them.”

“Why?  Did something happen?”

“I have it covered.  Please ascend.”

“But—”

“We have nothing more to discuss.”

Torani furrowed his brow.  This was sharp even for Demeko.  That tone’s subtext dawned on him.  He sneered.  “So.  I’m not to be trusted.  Is that it?  My word isn’t good enough.  Zehra thinks I’ll go after the rest of the brood.”

“Knight-Prince, please ascend.”

“Why?  Because otherwise you’ll claim queen’s will and come after me?  That would be such a pleasure for you, wouldn’t it, Demeko?  I bet that’s why you’re down here instead of Serana.  You’d love an excuse to come after me.”

“Please, Knight—“

“Go fuck yourself!”  Torani climbed back up.  Regret struck him before he reached the cocooning dens.  Demeko did not deserve his wrath.  Torani deserved whatever retribution would come his way when Demeko reported the outburst to the queen.  

Maybe tonight was a good night for hunting.  If he left now, he would he at his favorite spot before morning.  There would be time to dig a den or find one of his old ones.  An early start tomorrow night would mean more chances to catch prey.  More corpses for Rek.

On his way out, Serana spared him an inquiring look.  He sheepishly shook his head.  She would hear what he had done soon enough.
