“Rani, you squirm too much.”  Serana shoved Torani away.

His wings crumpled into the den’s wall.  The pain shocked him to full consciousness.  He climbed on top of her, the muscles in his back twinging.  There was no room to stretch out properly.  Rolling his shoulders, he tried to get them realigned.

As she brushed stray feathers off of him, “Sorry, did I wake you?”

“It’s fine.  I wasn’t enjoying that dream anyway.”

“Feeling guilty, are we?”

He cringed.  “So… Demeko told you what happened?”

“He said you found out that the queen doesn’t trust you around the grubs.  You didn’t take it well.  Knowing you and him, that was probably an understatement.”

“Did you know?”

“About you being banned?  Yeah.”

“You didn’t tell me.”

“I knew you wouldn’t take it well.”

Torani rolled onto his side, careful to keep his wings away from the wall.  “I feel bad.  I want to apologize for yelling at him, but that’s beneath my rank.  Apologizing might upset Demeko more than if I pretended that it never happened.”

“What did you say to him?”

Mumbling, “To go fuck himself.”

Serana broke into a cackle.  “Oh, you <i>were</i> mad.  Listen, I think Demeko has survived worse abuse than that.  He knew you would be upset when you found out.  He was ready for it.”

“I guess.  I supposed it’s a prince’s privilege to never take responsibility for anything…”

“Nah, I think that one’s specific to you.”

“Thanks.”

Serana stretched.  “Feels like it’s almost sunset.  I’m going up.”

“This early?  Can’t you stay a little longer?”

Serana’s jaw set in a cocky smile as if she was about to deliver biting sarcasm.  Her grin faded.  “Honestly, I’m nervous.  I want something to do.”

“What?  Why?”

“Two of the hunters haven’t come back in a week.”

He tiled his head side-to-side.  “That’s not too long if they’ve had a string of bad nights.”

“It’s too long when it’s Ander and Thera.”

Torani blinked, his expression unchanged.  “Why are they special?”

“Really, Rani?  Come on.  You know the workers’ names.  How do you not know our top hunters?”

“Maybe because <i>I’m</i> the top hunter.”

“Ander is our oldest.  Our best.  The fact that he works with Thera speaks to her abilities.  If they’re not back tonight, I don’t think we’ll see them again.  That’s three gone this year and only Kordi ascended.   And she’ll be a knight soon enough.  The food situation’s looking bad.”

“Rek’s close to ascending.”

“Good.  We need him.”

“I think Ru would be too if he would stop giving Rek his food.”

“Ru’s giving—?!  Never mind.  Rek’s got a royal in his pocket.  Of course he’s getting special treatment.”

Torani shifted position stiffly.  “I didn’t ask Ru to do that.”

“I assume you didn’t tell him to stop either.”

“…No.”

“Exactly.”  A huff.  “You picked out Rek’s next syllable yet?”

“Yeah.  Errek.”

“Ah, really?  Come on, Rani, you’re ruining the family tradition!”

His heart skipped a beat on the word <i>family</i>.  “T-tradition?”

“Rana, Rani, and… <i>Errek</i>?  He should be Reker instead!”

“That sounds aggressive.”

“It’s a hunter name.”

“I like Errek though.”

She gave a defeated sigh.  “Fine.  I guess ducks know what’s best for ducks.  I’ll deal with it.  I need to get moving though.”

“Hold on.”  Torani caught her in a kiss.  Familiarity and comfort.  “Can I get up early with you?”

She flicked his nose.  “Unacceptable.  You’re lazy.  You shouldn’t be up for another half hour.”  Before he could protest, she spun around to crawl out, kneeing his stomach in the process.

Torani coughed that pain off.  It barely registered.  <i>Rani, Rana, and Errek</i>.  He had never lined up their names like that.  It sounded good.  <i>His family</i>.  His <i>real</i> family.  He just had to find a place for them to go.  His current hunting ground was fruitful but too close to the nest.

How long did that highway stretch?  Even a two-night run from the nest would be enough.

Three click pulses: AWAKE.  AWAKE.  AWAKE.

Torani shot up, banging his head on the ceiling.  As he rubbed his skull, the clickpulses repeated.  He evacuated his den and scurried up the wall.  Serana clickpulsed again as he clambered over the edge.  She paused to yell, “Help him!” Her finger jabbed at nest exit.  At a mangled hunter laying on his belly in a pitiful splash of blood.

Torani dashed to him.  Skidded to a stop.  Dropped to his knees.  The hunter’s skin was brilliant vermillion.  Some burns were so deep that muscle striations showed through.  His hand was twisted.  Broken.  An arm was missing.  The cuts on his back and legs no longer bled.  The mess on the floor came from something on his front side.

Torani slid his hands under the hunter’s shoulders and waist.  “I’m sorry.” He flipped the hunter over.  A piercing shriek.  Torani barely recognized Ander.  He glanced down the exit tunnel, hoping to see or hear Thera.  Nothing.  <i>Damn!</i>  Cuts littered Ander’s his chest.  The worst one was a gash in his gut.  Organs poked through it.  Those had to be sealed first.  There was nothing Torani could do until then.

Rushing back to Serana, “He’s cut to ribbons.  I need your wire and needle.”

“You’re no good with it!”

From the pit, “Handle it!” Demeko crawled out and gave the next round of alarm calls.

Serana bolted to Ander, pulling out the wire.  Threading the needle, she looked over his state.  “This is bad.”  Shoving Ander’s organs back into his body with one hand, she nicked her free wrist.  Poured blood over the cuts.  Pinched the flesh seams together while Ander thrashed about.   Torani held him down as Serana sewed the worst wound closed.  Then another one.  A third.

As she scanned his chest, Torani choked out, “The arm too.”

“I’m not fucking blind!” She sealed one more chest gouge before turning to the shoulder stub.  There was no extra skin for her to cover it over.  She dropped the needle.  Her hand tightened and flexed as sparks crackled out of her palm.  Placing it over the stub, she electrically cauterized the wound.

When she released Ander, he wheezed out a whine.  Torani pulled him into sitting position.  Offered his wrist.  Electrically invited him while saying, “Drink your fill.”  The hunter snapped blindly until he finally hit a vein.  Torani swallowed down a whimper.

Blood leaked from Ander’s remaining wounds.  Serana sealed one after another.  The wire spool ran low.  Torani rocked back.  Dizzy.  Lightheaded.  His body was designed for holding blood, not giving it back.  He needed Ander to stop.  Too tired for electrical pulses.  The clickpulse caught in his throat.  Losing consciousness.

Shock as Ander was ripped from him.  Torani fell back.  Panting.  Reality fading in and out.  Vaeilentha had Ander now.  He was on her wrist.  Torani rolled onto his side and curled around the raw bite wounds on his arm.

His arm was pulled away from him.  Pressure.  Serana wrapped a cloth scrap around his arm.  Where did that come from?  Did it matter?  Torani and Serana flinched when Vaeilentha clickpulsed <I>STOP</I>.

Vaeilentha laid Ander down.  He wheezed through a grimace, but his eyes were bright and aware.  Good.  Or maybe bad.  The pain he must have been in was unimaginable.

Footsteps as the queen approached.  Rotero and Demeko stood stiffly at attention behind her with the eight remaining hunters.  Generals with their soldiers.  Azehralia helped the princess to her feet before kneeling to speak to Ander.  “Are we in immediate danger?”

“No.  I wasn’t followed.”

“Good.”  She stood.  Turned to the pit.  Took a deep breath to address her army.  “For now, we are safe.  Be cautious.  Remain alert.  Continue with you night as usual.”

“DO NOT SEND THEM OUT!”  Ander struggled to sit.  Pushing himself up on his broken hand.  His sewed wounds puckering out as he bent forward.  “The hunters cannot go out!  The nest is safe!  It’s not safe out there!”

“If there is no threat to face, then feeding the family is top priority.  Do not contradict me, Ander.”

Ander swallowed.  “Tell them not to go to the city then.”

The queen’s lips pulled back revealing her full range of shark teeth.  Sharp and acidic, “It was already our understanding that we avoid cities!  Isn’t that right!?”  Her gaze turned to the other hunters.  They all hunched their shoulders.  Some stepped back.  “Return to your night as usual.  In accordance with <I>MY RULES</I>.”  She pointed to the exit.  The hunters shuffled past her, heads down.

The queen snapped her fingers.  The knights appeared at her side.  Without looking at them, “Were you aware of their disobedience?”

“No.  I wouldn’t have allowed it.”  Demeko.

“I had no idea.  It’s not like I ask the victims where they came from.”  Serana.

The queen nodded.  “Make sure the workers are on task.  Return to your posts.  Maintain order.  Rotero, bring Ander to my chambers.”  The knights nodded and took off.  The queen turned to the princess.  “You seem strong enough to carry yourself.  Can you bring Torani with you?”

“Y-yes?”

“Do so.”

The queen strode towards the pit.  The princess looked down at the failed prince.  They shared bewildered expressions.  Torani saw no point in asking the obvious: why was he invited in the inevitable interrogation?
