Vaeilentha unceremoniously dumped Torani onto a couch.  He chose not to take it personally.  They were both exhausted from blood loss.  She helped Rotero prop up Ander on the couch across from the queen.  Drifting back to Torani, she sat on the far end of his couch.  She kept her mouth glued shut, but her chest heaved with suppressed panting.

Ander, for his part, looked relatively better.  The royal blood coursing through his veins did its job.  His wounds would heal quickly.  Within a day, the sewn cuts would be scars.  His mildest burns would be gone.  The deep ones would take a week.  His hand would be functional in a month.  All and all, he would be fine.  Except for the arm.  That loss was permanent.

After surveying her audience, Azehralia nodded.  “Rotero, you’re dismissed.”

The shock on the old’s knight face was the strongest emotion Torani had ever seen from him.  Rotero bowed.  “My queen.”  He wandered up the stairs as if lost.  Vaeilentha shot Torani a suspicious glance.  He shrugged his shoulders.  Whatever that was, he had played no conscious part in it.

Azehralia asked, “Do you feel able to explain everything, Ander?  Or should we be content with yes or no questions for now?”

“I can talk through it.  Thanks to our next highest family members.”  He nodded to Torani and Vaeilentha.

“Good.  Why are my hunters in the city?”

A weary sigh.  “I imagine the knight-prince is already aware of this, but the princess has not heard me.  I’ll repeat myself for her benefit.  There is no food around the nest anymore.  The towns dried up.  They either melt into endless cities, or the food leaves them to join in a city.  Our hunting ground is shrinking.  We cannot feed the nest on towns.  So, yes, we’ve gone against your will for the sake of the family.  For <i>your</i> sake.”

Azehralia opened her mouth to speak, but Ander pressed on.  “Everything comes from the city now.  It’s overflowing with targets that have no connections.  No one knows who they are.  They’re drugged.  They’re drunk.  They hardly struggle.  And someone else takes their place the next night.

“Compared to town hunting, it’s easier, faster, safer.  The food doesn’t blame us.  They think they’re cannibalizing themselves.  And they’re not wrong!  I’ve found near corpses.  Bodies left for dead after being attacked by one of their own.  We’ve dug up shallow graves on the outskirts.

“And, on the rare occasions when none of that works out, we go to the hospital.  A whole building for the dead and dying.  Some come willingly, looking for an end to their—”

“AND YET—” Azehralia paused, her eyes daring Ander to continue.  He carefully reset his jaw.  “You return home a wreck.  Without Thera.  Profuse all you like about your misguided, wonderland view of the city.  Perhaps the hunt there is easier, though looking at how little makes it back to the nest, I would argue otherwise.  As for safer?  Obviously not.”

“Things changed.” 

“Enlighten me.”

“We were tracking an easy target.  A woman alone at night.  While I’m keeping an eye out for bystanders, Thera went for her.  By the time I catch up, Thera is swearing about getting bitten on her back.  I pulled a dart out of her.  As I’m staring at it, trying to figure out why it’s there, I get hit in the arm.  Obviously, we have something after us, but I’m sure it has no idea what it’s dealing with.  I plucked the second dart out, thinking nothing of it.

“I start looking for the source of these things.  Then, I hear a scream.  I turn around and Thera is down.  The target is running away.  I take off after her but realize I’m not running.  I’m trotting.  Then I’m walking.  Stumbling.  It’s midnight.  I’m in the middle of a hunt.  I should be at my peak.  Instead, I’m falling asleep.

“The food finally found something that works on us.

“Next thing I know, Thera and I chained up in separate jail cells.  I laughed, thinking these idiots had sent us to prison.  A few clickpulses and we would escape.  I was wrong.  Two meat sacks had us.  Had the gall to call <i>themselves</i> hunters in their garbled voices.  They were the real deal though.  Our clickpulses didn’t work on them.

“They started torturing Thera.  Tried to get her to say where the nest was.  Naturally, all that led to was her being tortured.  I kept yelling at them.  ‘We cannot tell you.  It’s impossible.’”

“You spoke to them!?”

“I was willing to do anything to make it stop!  Anything except the obvious.  It was wasted effort.  They didn’t believe me.  After a few days, they finally killed her.  They hurt her bad enough, and that was it.   I didn’t know we could die like that.  And then they turned to me.”

Ander laughed bitterly.  “The food is so amazingly, stupidly persistent.  They don’t to get that if a thing didn’t work once, it’s not going to work a second time.  I played dead when I couldn’t take it anymore.  They bought it.  When they checked for my pulse, I made sure they didn’t get it.

“The next day, they built a fire.  Thankfully, I was in too much pain to sleep.  I saw when they dragged Thera out.  I was ready when they came back for me.  I kept playing dead.  They dropped my body on the grass next to Thera’s.  When they heaved her into the fire, I saw an out.  Decided I was more valuable to the family alive instead of fighting to the death there.  Took off.

“I went the scenic route in daylight.  I don’t believe for a second they expected me to attempt the trip under the sun.  <I>I</I> didn’t think I could do it.  I bet they’re still searching their property for my hiding spot.  Joke’s on them.

“But that’s why it’s not safe in the city anymore.  Not with those meat hunters watching it.  Our hunters can’t go back there.”

“So, the hunters should stop disobeying me?  How revolutionary.”  Azehralia rested her head on her hand, boredom overlaying her fury.

A new spark lit in Ander’s eyes.  “Unless we take the meat hunters out.  Reclaim that turf for ourselves.  There can’t be that many—”

“You were never supposed to be there!  Why would I risk the nest ‘reclaiming’ something I never wanted?”

“Fine.  Let the family starve.”

She slammed her fist down.  “We are not starving!  I told you what to do about the towns’ decline.  If you are unwilling to look further out—!”

“Where are we supposed to look?!  West into the barren mountains?  East into the empty plains?  The old southern grounds <i>are</i> a city now.  Go too far north, and, guess what, <i>another city</i>.  We’re boxed in!”

“Why don’t I believe that?  Ah, yes.  Because I find it easier to believe that disobedient laziness now pervades the family.  I chose this spot because of its bounty.  Its wealth of food.  Its—”

“And even ten years ago, it was enough.  Not now!”

“Do not interrupt—!”

“Azehralia, you have no fucking idea what the world looks like anymore!  If you won’t believe me, your eyes in the field, then send Rotero.  <i>Look for yourself</i>.  You’ll realize I’m doing my duty as a hunter.  Feeding the family.  It’s not your place to tell us how to hunt.  You have no power outside the nest!”

The queen stood.  Strode to the hunter.  Kinked his chin up to stare directly into his eyes.  The acrid stink of pheromones spiked.  “My place is to lead the family.  To protect us from danger.  Even when that danger is your own stupidity!”  She waited for that to sink in.  “My authority ranges as far as the family does.  You will NEVER undermine that again.”

Ander shook his head weakly.  “No, I don’t think I will.”  He stared back with dull eyes.  Azehralia raised her hand.

Torani shot to his feet.  “Zehra, please, let’s not be hasty!”

She tilted her head in Torani’s direction.  Her expression blank.  “Tell me: what value is hunter that cannot hunt?”  She motioned to Ander’s missing arm.

“He’s our top hunter.  Our oldest.”  He placed himself between Ander and the queen.  “Imagine the wealth of knowledge we lose.  He has value in teaching the others.”

“It seems to me he only wishes to teach disobedience.”  The queen sighed.  “But, all right, let’s consider it.  We just lost <i>both</i> of our best hunters.  Feeding the family has become significantly more difficult.  Ander is another unproductive mouth.  To keep him, we’ll have to make an exchange.  Dispose of a less important family member.  Which worker should we sacrifice?  Les?  Al?  Or maybe Rek.  He is the newest and least experienced, after all.”

“Zehra, I—”

She held up a finger.  “I know.  It’s hard for both of us to make that decision.  How about we leave it to Ander.”  Gently pushing Torani aside, she turned to the hunter.  “Which worker should we sacrifice in your honor?”

“None.  If I can’t hunt, then what’s the point of living?”

Azehralia nodded.  “I thought so.  I’m glad you and I still agree on what it means to be a hunter.”  Her eyes were on Torani as she spoke.  Her gaze returned to Ander.  “You served us well for a long time.  You will be missed despite your disobedience.”

“Make my death meaningful.  Accept that the world is changing, Queen Azehralia.”

“Your words will be taken into proper consideration.”  She ripped open Ander’s rip cage.  Pulled out the heart.  Devoured it.

Blood streaked across Torani’s clothes and face.  A taste of it on his lips.  His blood mixed with Vaeilentha’s.  He wiped his face clean on his way back to the couch.

“Torani.”

He stopped.

“Is it fair to assume you were also hunting the cities?”

“No.”  He smiled to himself as he turned back around.  For once he was not breaking the rules.  “I hunt the highways the south of us.  There’s a lot of lonely roads out there.  Traffic is sparce.  It’s a long way, but I make it back most nights.”

“Can the hunters to work the highways?”

“My technique is harder than a simple grab and run.  It’s time sensitive and involves more acting.”  He rubbed the back of his neck.  “I can probably teach them.  I’m not sure there’s enough roads to keep everyone busy though.  Some will have to go further out to find new towns.”

“It’s better than nothing.  I’ll have Serana pass along the message that the hunters are due for retraining.  That and, if anyone else goes to the city, they will meet the same fate as Ander.”

“Zehra, there aren’t enough hunters left.  Demeko and Serana are more than capable of hunting until Rek and Ru—”

“Absolutely not.  We’ve just learned of a threat in our domain.  We need the knights at the ready to defend us more than ever.”

“There’s another option,” Vaeilentha finally spoke up.  Her arms crossed.  “I can leave the nest early.”

“No.”  Queen Azehralia turned back to Torani.

“Why not?” she pressed.  “I’m the most difficult family member to feed.  I can hunt for myself—”

“I said, ‘No.’”

“If I leave, I can find a place to start the sister nest.  Then I just need to come back for Kordi and the grubs when—”

“WHAT DOES ‘NO’ MEAN!?”  The queen had more to say, but her words caught on a cough.

“Fine, do you know what the next best idea is?  Postpone initiation.  We can’t support another brood right now.”

“You dare suggest—”

“I’m not suggesting.  I’m stating a truth you’re already aware of!”

“WHAT HAS GOTTEN INTO THE FAMILY THAT YOU ALL DARE—!?"  Azehralia doubled over in a racking coughing fit.  “You ungrateful—”  She swallowed something down.  Took a step to the side.  Stumbled.  

Torani caught her as her as her knees gave.  He dragged her back to the couch.  Whispered, “Are you all right?”

She ignored his question.  Looking at Vaeilentha, “I’ve had enough stress for one day.  We will discuss why your suggestions will not be taken later.  You are dismissed.”

“My queen.”  Vaeilentha made her exit with a regal stride mocking the queen’s weakness.  Her footsteps echoed down from the staircase.

Torani realized he was still holding onto the queen.  He could feel her heartbeat.  Fast and pounding.  Her skin was warm.  Feverish.  He slowly pulled away.  “Would you like me to send Rotero down?”

“Do you understand why I included you in this conversation?”

“No.”

A sigh.  “I had hoped that scene made it obvious.  Oh well.  Your empathy for all ranks touches me.  You have novel ideas.  You propose compromise.  Perhaps you are a little too willing to take risks, but the family is always first in your thoughts.  You would have made an excellent prince.”

Torani’s hands balled into fists, his nails digging into his palms.  “Thank you, Zehra.”

“But you are young.  Inexperienced.  Naïve.  I invited you here to see the greater context for what I chose to do with Ander.  You made that easy by doing what I thought you would: sticking your neck out for an individual without considering the entire family.  It’s your blind spot.  Learn to recognize it.”

The queen settled back.  “In the future, I’ll involve you in my decisions more.  Once Vaeilentha is gone, and your presence here won’t upset her.  Until then, consider what happened today and learn from it.”  She closed her eyes.  “Do send Rotero down on your way out.”
