Exiting the lower chamber was a relief.  When Torani reached the top step, he almost walked into Rotero.  A suspicious anxiety plagued the knight’s tight stance.  Torani swallowed and looked away.  “Zehra—” Rotero slipped past him and ran down the stairs.  Message received.

Everyone knew Rotero was special to Azehralia, but Torani had never given much thought to it.  The knight had been exposed to an unimaginable pheromone dosage.  There was no doubt his brain was fried from reward pulses.

Had Rotero and the queen ever had a legitimate friendship, partnership… whatever their relationship was?  Or had it always been a manifestation the queen’s privilege and nothing more?  Torani shook his head as he wandered into the foyer.

“What did she say after I left?”  Vaeilentha stood at the exit, leaning against the French doors.

He shrugged.  “I care too much about individuals.  I forget to think about the family as a whole.”

She tilted her head from side-to-side, considering.  “She’s not wrong, you know.”

Torani put his hands in his pockets, waiting for Vaeilentha to move.  She stayed put.  Blocking the way.  “Do you need something?”

She said nothing.  Her expression revealed nothing.  But Torani knew her inside and out.  She was waiting.  Had she sensed the gears turning in his mind as Ander spoke?  As Ander was executed?  As Azehralia collapsed?

He had nothing to say about that.

He approached the door.  Surprisingly, Vaeilentha moved aside.  She let him press down the door handles.  He stopped.  There <i>was</i> something they needed to talk about.

Turning on his heels.  Reorienting towards her.  Her face pinched in confusion as he trapped her against the wall.  Whispering into her ear, “How badly do you want to leave?”

Vaeilentha grabbed him by the hair.  Slammed him against the wall.   Smashed her lips to his.  <i>That was the last thing he wanted</i>.  He told his hands to shove her away.  To break free and walk out.  Instead, he wrapped his arms around her shoulders and kissed her back.  She pinned his neck to the wall, a crooked smile on her face.  “Yes.”  She stepped back.  “What do you have in mind?”

“I’m working on something.”

“Don’t keep me in suspense.”  A note of irritation in her voice.

“How healthy do you think the nest is?”

“How healthy…?  Enough?  What are you asking me?”

“We both saw Zehra coughing.  You know why I’m asking.”

“I suppose...  Why does it matter?”

“You said you’ve been waiting to leave for twenty years.”

“And?”

“You listened to what Ander said, right?”

Vaeilentha blinked.  “I see you still haven’t learned how to string your thoughts into a coherent idea.”

“I’m trying to put this in order for you!  Think about what it all means together!”

“Or you could just tell me your plan.”

“Just—Have the grubs always taken this long to ascend?”

A frustrated sigh.  “No.”

“How long has Zehra been coughing?”

No response.

“I used to feel her for miles outside the nest.  Now, I lose her once I walk out the exit tunnel.  No wonder it was so easy for the hunters to disobey her.  Ander was right.  Her influence doesn’t exist out there.  Not anymore.  Everything related to Zehra is weakening.”

Vaeilentha’s expression remained blank.

“You get what I’m saying, right?”

“That Azehralia is sick?  Maybe even dying?  That’s not news to me.”   She cleared her throat.  “Though I’ll admit I was unaware how obvious it was to the rest of you.”

“So.  She <i>is</i> dying.”

“Probably.  But why does that matter?”

“I already told you.  I used to feel her outside the nest.  I can’t anymore.  The weaker she gets, the less there is holding us here.”

“So, what?  Your plan is to wait until she dies?  That’s not a plan, that’s an inevitability.”

“No, that’s—” Torani ran a hand through his hair.  Why was talking to her so impossible.  “If anyone could walk out of here and not look back, it’s you.”

“If that were true, I’d be gone already.”  Vaeilentha turned around.  “Why do I let you waste my—?"

Torani cut in front of her.  “It’s because you’re with her constantly.  You’re drowning in pheromones.  Of course you can’t walk out.  We need to get you away from her.  Even a few days will be enough.  Then you could leave.”

“If distance is all it takes, then why do you keep coming back?”

“W-why wouldn’t I come back?”

“Don’t play coy.  I know you.  If you wanted to stay, you’d be desperate to cure her.  You don’t care that she’s sick.  You’re not invested in this nest.  What’s keeping you here?”

“Isn’t it obvious?  Rek.”

“The worker?  You could carry him out if you were so inclined.  Try again.”

Torani stepped back.  His mind raced through excuses.

“I’m waiting.”

He swallowed.  “What do you think happens to a nest when it’s queen dies?  Do we all fade with her?  Does she extinguish us in violence with her last breath?”

“You’re testing my patience, Torani.  Whatever secret you have, spill it.  It’s not like I’ll tell.  Not when you have this whole conversation as ammunition against me.”

He rubbed at the worry lines in his forehead.  “I can’t leave Serana behind.”

 “Serana?  The <i>knight</i>?”  She snorted.  

“I can’t drag her with me.  I don’t know if she has the willpower to follow me.  I need hel—It’s not funny!”

“It’s so sad it’s funny!”  Vaeilentha stifled her cackling.  “You desperately cry to be a prince, but everything you do connects to your true nature as a knight.  Of course you have a little crush on her.  You two are cut from the same ragged cloth.”  She shook her head.  “Does she fill the void I left?”

“You—Tha—You promised.  Said you were done fighting with me!  Belittling me—!”

“Shhh, you’re right, you’re right.  There’s no need for me to voice the painful truth.”  She closed her eyes, nodding.  “I suppose it would be a bit much for just the two of us to drag out Kordi and the two cocoons.  Serana will be useful.”

“We can’t move the grubs until they finish ascending.  Not unless you want to risk them failing.”

“If I have to wait until they can walk, then why do I need you?”

“Wouldn’t it be nice to know where your nest will be before you leave?”

Her eyes fixed on him.

“I’ve gone well beyond our hunting ground.  I can find the right place for you.  I’ll even help you get the nest started.  After that, I’ll take Rek and Serana and go… somewhere.  Anywhere that’s not here.  <i>And not with you</i>.”

“I don’t want the reject squad anyway.”  Her mouth kinked into a frown.  “This ‘plan’ of yours doesn’t have much substance.”

“I told you I’m working on it.  It’s not like we can do anything yet anyway.  For now, start finding excuses to distance yourself from Zehra.  Make her trust that you’ll always come back.  Then, when I figure out a good excuse to get you away from her, she won’t fight the idea.”

“Hopes and dreams and fantasy.  It’s a joke.”

His shoulders dropped.  She had stopped listening to him.  Why did he ever think she would help?  Even when he was in her good graces, she had never listened.  His job was to look pretty and amuse her.

“You know what I truly hate about you, Torani?”

“What.”

“Sometimes, you speak with such conviction about your insanity that it almost sounds viable.”  She looked down the staircase then back to Torani.  “I’ll do my part.  If you come up with a good excuse to get me away from her, I’ll play along.  I’m not offering you anything more until I see results.”

“That’s all I’m asking for.”

“Indeed.  I’ll keep my expectations low.  I’m tired of being disappointed by your empty promises.”  She stepped around him, making her way to the raw tunnels at the back of the foyer.

Once she was out of sight, Torani stumbled onto the queen’s balcony.  He stared at his den across the way.  Oh, how he wanted sleep.  But the family needed him to hunt.  <i>Rek</i> needed him to hunt.  He began the climb up.
