Something was wrong.  It was not yet dusk, but Rek paced the top of the worker’s spiral like a caged animal.  He felt feverish.  Having only ever been cold, the excess heat was unbearable.  An itch at the back of his throat drove him wild.  Stirred coughing fits that choked him.  This sudden illness was the latest in a long line of concerns.

Rek no longer knew who he was.

Before, he had considered himself kind.  A team-player.  Even his fragmented grub memories suggested that he only fought when he had to.  He used to find joy in the simple, task-oriented community he shared with his peers.  He had been happy.  Useful.  At peace.

That changed after the alarm call.

The sound woke him from a bad dream.  Something looming over him.  Claws and teeth slashing at him.  Jarred to consciousness, that fear and anger followed him to reality.  Despite his distraught state, Von had urged him to move.  Tried to drag him to his feet.  He used his superior command of language to dominate her.

Ru was next.  Though always source of frustration, Rek used to adore him anyway.  No longer.  Rek’s endless stream of caustic remarks against Ru upset all the workers.  Les now assigned work to Rek that he could do by himself.  A part of Rek longed for Ru’s company.  The rest of him preferred completing his tasks correctly.

Last night, Rek had even snapped at Les.  It must have been one of those “last straw” moments.  Except he did not remember what the last straw had been.  He had also forgotten the other slights that built him into a powder keg.

It was like he was always verging on rage for no reason.  Maybe it was the ravenous hunger.  The empty void in his stomach.  Even stealing food was not enough fill it.

Rek’s throat twinged, triggering another coughing fit.  The worst one yet.  He fell to his knees, retching.  His dry mouth tingling.

Blood was too much to ask for, but he would have killed for some water.  Then again, if he had to kill, there <i>would</i> be blood.  Water would be a moot point.  Killing something might be a good solution…  A mix of amusement and guilt washed over him.

Movement above.  Rek’s eyes shot to Torani’s door.  Serana snuck out before climbing the wall.  Rek grit his teeth.  What business did a lower royal have in Torani’s den?  Why was she allowed in there while he was stuck with the idiot workers?!

Yes, he felt the hypocrisy in that sentiment.  He knew that, as a knight, Serana had more right to Torani’s attention than he did.

That was irrelevant.

Let his instincts scream about the ridiculousness of a worker claiming a royal.  He knew they wrong.  A deeper awareness assured him that this feeling of ownership was valid.  And Torani clearly felt the same way about Rek.  They had something special together.  If only he could figure out what that something was…

Slamming his back into the pit wall, he slid down.  He groaned like a teenager working through a mood.  Torani had said he was close to ascension.  That must be what this was.  But it felt wrong.  Rek remembered the contradicting instincts arguing in his head when he climbed up from the darkness.  That secondary voice told him what to do with the changes permeating his mind and body.  Where was that now?

Another den opened.  Demeko took to the wall and descended.  His path led him past Rek.  For no good reason, Rek hissed at Demeko.  The knight stopped.  Climbed back up.  Stepped onto the platform, staring daggers at Rek.

Rek jumped to his feet.  His body tensed for a fight.  Unimpressed, Demeko continued forward.  Rek hissed again.  The knight easy caught Rek by the neck and lifted his lithe form.  For a moment, Demeko suspended those wild eyes and flailing feet.  He slammed Rek into the wall like a rag doll.  Fear finally kicked in.  Rek squirmed and whined like a worker.

Demeko dropped him.  “You know better.”  Rek stayed down, not daring to look up at the royal.  All aggression left him.  Although he was now terrified of Demeko, he was bizarrely happy for the reality check.  He felt more like himself again.  Did that mean fear was part of who he was?

No.  <i>Anger</i> was not who he was.  That was the problem.

Demeko returned to the wall.  Rek glanced over to watch him go.  The knight climbed to Torani’s den.  Knocked.  Oh no.  The door opened and the two royals discussed.  Rek shrank further into himself.  Torani would be so disappointed with him.

As Demeko descended the wall, Torani went through his usual routine.  Sliding off the landing.  Flopping onto bridge.  That meant he was in no rush.  Maybe Rek was not in trouble?  After stretching out his wings, Torani looked down and waved.  He did not <i>seem</i> angry.  Rek sheepishly waved back.  The failed prince glided to the spiral on his tiny wings.

“Evening, Rek.”

Rek nearly spat out Torani’s title.  He knew Torani wanted him to stop doing that.  Suddenly, he did too.  The title emphasized the difference between them.  It made Rek feel subservient.  Inferior.  “Torani, evening.”  The greeting surprised the failed prince—in a good way.

Sitting crossed legged, Torani rested his head on his hand.  “So, tell me… Why are you picking fights with Demeko?  That’s not a good idea.  Trust me.”

“I just… I don’t know.  I have all this energy and nothing to do with it.  I can’t sleep.  I need to do <i>something</i>.  But I don’t know what!”

Torani raised his hand.  “May I?”

Huffing, Rek grabbed the hand and plastered it to his forehead.  “I’m melting.”

Torani pulled free of Rek’s grasp.  Taking the worker’s wrists, he rotates Rek’s arms.  Examined them.   “You not getting enough food.”

“I could have told you that!” Rek immediately regretted his tone.  “Sorry, I just—”

“It’s all right.  Even Kordi got temperamental when she went through this.  What I meant is you should be ascending.  But there isn’t enough of you to do it.  You need to eat more.  To build up more muscle.”

“And how <i>exactly</i> do I do that with what gets thrown to us?”  Again.  The tone.  <i>Stop it.</i>

Torani sighed.  “I’m doing my best out there, Rek.  We’re short on hunters.  The higher family members are eating lesser cuts.  There’s not much left for workers.”

“So, I’m stuck like this?”

Torani looked away, worrying at the scars on his wrist.  A new light came into his eyes.  “I think I have an idea.”  He stood, pulling Rek up with him.  “I finished teaching the hunters how to work the highways, but you still need to learn.  Why don’t we start tonight?  Out there.”  He glanced up.

“You’ll take me out of the nest!?”  Panic.  Excitement.  Anticipation.

Torani shushed him.  “I can get you fresh meat out there.  That’s what you need now.  Not post-hunter scraps.”

Rek licked his lips.  But his instincts pointedly warned him not to go.  “Is this allowed?”

“I say it is.”

“That…”  There was secondary meaning there.  Some caveat Rek felt but did not understand.

Torani placed his forehead against Rek’s.  “I won’t watch you fail before you even become a hunter.”

“What do you mean?

“Just come with me.  Please.”

Rek looked down.  A good worker would stay and wait.  A good worker also obeyed orders.  What would a hunter do in this situation?  Both ranks were expected to follow the royal commands, right?  This counted.  No need to debate it further.  “Okay.”

“Do you think you can climb up on your own, or should I carry you?”

Rek turned to the wall.  Put his hands on it.  No voice demanded that he stay down.  He pulled himself up.  Daintily lifted his weak right leg onto the first foothold.  Then his good leg.  It felt no different than crawling around the walls in the worker’s layer.  “I’ve got this.”

Torani passed him, making it over the edge quickly.  He waited until Rek reached the top then beelined for the exit.  Rek held back, looking around with wide eyes.  He had been sure he would be greeted by new wonders in the uppermost layer.

Instead, he saw Serana, the cage, and the sconce.  There was nothing else but rock and darkness.  He furrowed his brow.  This was unimpressive.

“Rek, keep up.”  Torani stood impatiently with his hands in his pockets.  Nodding, Rek hobbled after him.  Torani remained anchored in place, his expression frozen.  When Rek caught up, Torani leaned down to whisper into his ear.  “Why are you limping?”

Limp.  A word Rek had never heard before.  He thought he understood it anyway.  “I always limp when I run.”  Torani crossed his arms uncomfortably.  “It used to be worse!  I couldn’t even stand early on.  It keeps getting better though.”  At least he hoped that was the case.

Torani put a hand on his shoulder.  “We’ll work around it.  For now, keep it hidden.”

“Why?”

“Torani, what the hell are thinking this time?”  Serana stepped to Torani’s side.  Her expression was a conflicted mix of worry and frustration. 

“Look at him.”  Torani held Rek’s arm out.   “He’s burning up and snapping at everything.  He should be a hunter already, but he’s skin and bones.  If I don’t get him fed, he’ll eat the other workers.”

“Torani—”

“No punishments, remember?  This will help the nest.  I can get away with it.  Trust me!”  He leaned in to say more.  Rek missed the words.  Serana rolled her eyes.  Torani insisted on something.

She shrugged.  “Look, I know better than to waste my breath when you get like this.”  Torani kissed her neck and then her lips.  She indulged him for a moment, then shoved him away.  “Get out of here before the hunters see you.  Or Demeko.”

“We might not be back tonight.  Wish us luck.”

“There’s not enough luck in the world for you.”

“I’m glad you’re rooting for me.  Come on, Rek.”  Torani wrapped an arm around the worker’s shoulder, leading him past Serana.  Rek disguised his glare as neutral disinterest.  He forgot about his dislike of Serana as soon as they reached the exit tunnel.  The air smelled different here.  Wetter.  Colder.  Fresher?  He was tugged away from it.

“Rek, pay attention.”  Torani detoured down a side tunnel.  Reluctantly, Rek followed.

The passageway expanded into a wide cavern littered with mountains of cloth.  A pile of shirts and trousers.  A mound of dresses.  A stack of hats.  The back wall was lined with extraneous discarded materials.  Moldering piles of identifiable fabric.  The tallest heap comprised shoes.  Next to it, all manner of watches and jewelry thrown aside like trash.

Torani walked to a series of wooden posts hammered into the left wall.  He pulled a duster off one and carefully fitted it over his wings.  He pointed to a pile.  “Pick out a jacket for yourself.  It’s chilly out there.” 

“I’m overheating.”

“You’ll want it later.”

Rek frowned but wandered over to the coats.  He picked up the first one within reach and held it up.

“That’s too small.”

Rek grabbed the next closest one.

“No.”  Torani stepped beside Rek to picked through the pile.  Checking one coat after another against Rek’s form.  He settled on a tan leather jacket.

Rek stared at it then Torani.  “It’s bigger than I am.”

Torani put it in Rek’s arms anyway.  “You’ll grow into it.  Come on.”  Frowning, Rek tied the unwieldy thing around his waist.  At least they were finally on their way out.
