A return to the cooler, fresher air.  As they walked, Rek heard the quiet rumble of something like clickpulses.  Its rhythm was faster though.  More musical.  It sounded without command.  “Who’s talking?”

“It’s crickets,” Torani chuckled.

Rek nearly asked who Crickets was, but the word’s meaning came to him.   Crickets were creatures.  “Creature.”  Another new word.  He was sure he had never seen a creature before.  Nonetheless, he vaguely knew what crickets looked like.  Small boxy things with antennae and too many legs.  He rushed ahead, wanting to see the real thing.

Exiting the tunnel, he stumbled to a halt.  The outside world was huge.  Vast sweeping plains in all directions.  He darted into the grass, feeling its alternating slickness and sharpness between his fingers.  Laughing, he rolled through it.  The intoxicating smell of crushed flowers stopped him.  In that pause, scattered patches of vibrant wildflowers caught his eye.

Lifting his weight onto his elbows, he scanned the full scene.  Far north, a scrubby tree line faded into forest.  Hints of mountains to his left.  He turned to look at Torani and was instead awed by the nest.  The towering rock it was carved into.  It led his eyes skyward.

A brilliant half-moon ghosted though occasional breaks in wispy cloud cover.  A haunting brightness, whose grey halo defied the dark sky.  His breath’s fog startled him.  This world was too much.   How could he piece it all together?  “My god…”

Torani kneeled next to him.  “Who’s god?”

A conviction stirred in Rek.  Indignance that Torani would dare ask that.  The emotion came with no substance.  “I don’t… know?”

“It doesn’t matter.  You’ll hear plenty about it from the food.”  Torani brushed tears from Rek’s eyes.  Wait, Rek had been crying?  He turned away, vigorously wiping his face clean.  Torani grinned.  “I felt the same way when I first saw the stars.”

“Why do we live down there when this is out here?”

“Catch a sunrise.  Then the nest will look pretty good.  Unless you prefer living without skin.”

Rek cringed.

“Also, the nest is safe.  You’ve never delt with the food while it’s alive, but they fight back.  They’re organized.  They’re smart.  But good hunters are smarter and faster.  Strong enough to withstand the odds.”  His expression darkened.  “Speaking of which, can you walk for me?  I want to see how bad your limp is.”

Nodding, Rek rose to his feet.

Torani’s expression remained unchanged as he watched.  “Now, try to walk without limping.”

Rek slowed his pace.  Putting weight on his bad leg stung, but the real problem was his shaking knee.  It made him unsteady.  He glanced at Torani.  Torani looked displeased.  “I can practice.”

“You may have to.  We’ll see after you finish ascending.  Putting on muscle might help.”

“Why does it matter?”

“Hunters seek weakness.  Even in each other.  If the others realize they can take advantage you, they will.  You’ll get less food.  No one will partner with you to hunt.”

“But what if I can’t hide it?”

“You’ll learn to.  You cannot show weakness.”

Muttering, “Easy for you to say.  You don’t have any weaknesses.”

“I have some.”

“Then what are they?”

“Well hidden.”

Rek huffed.

Torani turned around.  “Climb on.  We’re behind.  We won’t make it if I don’t carry you.”  Awkwardly, Rek clambered onto Torani’s back.  He squished down a wing joint and Torani twitched.  Repositioning himself, Rek found a way to hold on without hurting Torani.  The failed prince stood carefully.  “Okay.  Hold tight.  It’s a long run.”

Initially, Rek was enthralled with the trip south.  Passing through the landscape at highspeed felt incredible.  An assault on his senses.  The rushing air chilling his skin.  The hissing grass parting around them.  Stray trees and rocks zooming by.  Launching over a small, burbling creek.  All the while, the moon stubbornly stayed still.

And then the novelty wore off.

Rek resented Torani carrying him.  He wanted to run.  Wanted to dart towards things that interested him.  Wanted to feel the rhythm of his feet pounding the earth.  How would ever he hide his limp from the other hunters when it prevented him from running?  His irritation was heightened by his ever-increasing hunger.  Even Torani smelled like food.

As they approached a tree line, Torani eased to a stop.  Panting, “My spot is just ahead.”  He kneeled, and Rek dismounted.  Torani rolled his shoulders through a wince.

“Are you okay?”

“Just winded.  I haven’t been eating well.  And you’re heavy for a worker.”

“Rising hunter, you mean?”

“You’re bound for greater things than that.”

“What do you mean?”

Torani took a deep breath but kept panting.  “Let’s take a break.”  He slid towards a tree to lean back against its trunk.

Before Rek could ask again, chirruping caught his ear.  A cricket had made the mistake of separating itself from the others.  Another lonely chorus broke the silence.  Oblivious to the danger, the cricket desperately fluttered its legs and wings to attract a mate.  One more half chirp.

Rek snatched it.  It squirmed and wriggled in his grasp.  He squeezed tighter.  Crackling.  It stopped fighting.

Opening his hand, he revealed crumbled, twitching legs wrapped around the milky white sack of the cricket’s internals.  Its immobile, multifaceted eyes stared into nothingness as its mouth parts flexed and flailed.  It looked afraid.  Was such a thing capable of fear?  Or pain?

“What did you find?”  Rek presented his insect mush.  Torani snorted.  “A fine first hunt.”

“Can I eat this?”

“Sure.  It won’t kill you.”

Furrowing his brow, Rek waited for clarification.  None came.  He glanced at his palm.  Food was food.  He shoveled the insect parts into his mouth.  Chewed.  Regretted it.  Cricket guts were gooey.  They left a bitter, grassy taste in his mouth.  He swallowed.  The legs kicked their way down his throat.  Irritating the itch.  Choking him into another coughing fit.

“Sounds like you really liked that.”

“I will never eat another cricket.”

“At least you learn fast.”  Closing his eyes, he tilted his head back.  His breathing smoothed out.  He looked calm.  At peace.  How strange.

In the nest, conflict always roiled behind Torani’s eyes.  Fear and anxiety drove him to act and held him back.  Rek shook his head.  He had never seen Torani’s behavior in <i>that</i> light before.  Was this what Torani meant when he said hunters were built to see weakness?

He banished the thought.    “Torani?”

“Mhm?”

“What did you mean by ‘bound for greater things?’”

“You’re not just a rising hunter.  You’re a rising royal.”

“So… I’ll be like you?”

Torani flinched.  “No!  Not like me!  I won’t—”  He choked back the rest.

“I’m-sorry-forget-I-asked.”  Never mind that he had no idea why what he asked was wrong.

“No, it’s…”  A deep sigh.  “I guess it’s as good a time as any to explain this.”  He licked his lips.  “Do you remember when you asked about my name?  Why it’s missing a syllable.”

Rek nodded.

“I didn’t fully ascend.  Knight-Prince isn’t a rank.  It’s a consolation prize.  I was supposed to be a prince, but I never made it.  I failed.”

“Does that mean you’re still a knight?”

“It means…  My body can only do what a knight does, but my instincts…”  He shook his head.  “I don’t know.  Zehra treats me like a prince.  But Ilen always insists I’m a knight.  One that’s spoiled, but still <i>just a knight</i>.  Sometimes, I think Ilen’s the one who’s right.”

“Is that why Knight Serana gets to sleep with you?”

His posture stiffened.   “You know about that?”

“I saw her leave your den tonight.”

“Did you say anything about it to anyone?”

“No?”

He relaxed again.  “Keep what you saw to yourself.”

Warning bells.  Secrets were forbidden.  They only existed when someone was acting against the family.  A new word surfaced in his mind.  “Her being there is <i>treason</i> somehow, isn’t it?”

No response.

He met Torani’s gaze.  Dull and disconnected.   His pupils quivered with anxiety.  It reminded Rek of the cricket.  He looked away.  “That’s what my instincts tell me anyway.  But they’re not very reliable, are they?  If I listened to them, I would be afraid of you.  Right now, they’re screaming for me to murder everything.  They’re not very helpful.  I’m actually getting pretty good at ignoring—”

“No.”  Torani leaned forward to place his hands on Rek’s shoulders.  “Do not ignore your instincts.”  He shifted uncomfortably.  “Not unless I tell you to.”  A grimace of a smile.  “And that should be one of your instincts anyway.  That the orders of higher family members trump pure instinct.”

“But you always want things that go against my instincts.  What’s the point of listening to them at all?”

“For now, just do what I’m telling you.  Trust me.  Trust them.”

“Okay...”  Rek sighed.  As much as he liked Torani, this kind of game exhausted him.  And something about Torani’s words still bothered him.  “Why only for now?  What happens later?”

“You’re clearly ascending.  Workers don’t ask so many questions.”

Rek wore an inviting, genial smile at odds with his impatience.

Torani’s shoulders sank.  “You will not repeat this to anyone.  Understood?  It’s treason, and <i>I don’t care</i>.  But I don’t want to get caught.”

“I don’t understand.”

“Can you keep a secret?”

Ignoring another round of warning bells, he nodded.

“You and Serana are <i>my</i> family.”  There was such gravity to those words.

“I know?  The whole nest is—”

“No.  Not the whole nest.  Just the three of us.  That’s <i>my</i> family.  Everyone else is <i>Zehra’s</i> family.  You two are different.  You’re <i>mine</i>.”

“So, what does that mean?”

“It means I need you to be good and stay in place until I figure out something better for us.”  His gaze shifted to some faraway place.  Rek wished he could see whatever was in Torani’s head.  Maybe then this would all make sense.  Torani returned to reality.  “It means you can trust Serana.  You cannot trust anyone else though.  Do you understand?”

“No…  But I can do what you’re asking.”  Except for trusting Serana.  Why would he need her anyway?

“Good enough.”  Torani stood up.  “Come on, I’m ready to go.  Let’s get you some food.”

“Torani?  I won’t fail like you did.  Promise.”

A pained smile.  “I’ll make sure you don’t.  Whatever it takes…”
