The captives had no view of the sky, but the rustling and shrieking below announced sunset.  Ten individuals collected one-by-one.  Men, women, teens, and one child, mostly from the social ladder’s lowest rungs.  It had been days since anyone was added.  Days since the screams for help had subsided.

Nightly, the captives were provided with a clean water bucket, but no food.  One could pace the length the wooden slat cage, but that made the rest of the flock nervous.  The last flurry of activity had been the day before.

The child had pried up a stone.  It gave everyone hope that they could dig under the cage.  They fell into a frantic frenzy of scratching.  Breaking nails and leaving bloody streaks on the rock.

The ground was too hard to dig through.

Amid the timeless, monotonous uncertainty, many succumbed to bored dread.  However, a hook-nosed man in now-wrinkled work clothes sat with the child.  They had no relationship prior to the cage, but he maintained a false cheeriness for her.  It seemed the right thing to do.

When the escape attempt failed and the child gave into hopeless sobbing, he promised her, “We’d all stand in the way before we let them hurt you.  Somehow, we’ll get out of this.” The child had smiled weakly.  She may have been too old to unquestioningly believe an adult’s lies.

It stopped her crying though.  Now, she rolled her stone to him.  And he rolled it back.  The rock’s skittering bounce drowned out the other captives’ nervous breathing.  It did not mask the sounds emanating from the massive, dark pit beside them.

Demeko, the second oldest knight, crawled put of the pit.  He strode past the cage to a table-sized sconce craved from rock.  Reaching in, he checked the leftover kindling.  There was enough.  The line of three orange-red spots along his arm glowed faintly.

Tiny sparks bounced off his palm, like flint striking steel.  Several landed as molten specks.  Gently, he blew them into flames.  After adding a log to feed the growing fire, he returned to the pit edge.  Staring down its walls, he searched for his sister-in-arms, Serana.

Unfortunately, the next den to open belonged to the failed prince Torani.  He slithered out of his round door onto a platform.  And then carelessly rolled off it.  A rope bridge stretching across the upper layer caught his fall, bouncing wildly on impact.

When it stilled, Torani hopped to his feet and lazily stretched out his malformed wings.  Both were half-sized.  One was missing three digits.  At the bridge’s end, he reached for the wall and climbed up like a lower family member.

Once over the edge, Torani greeted Demeko in a whisper, “Evening.”

Demeko nodded.

Torani pointed at the workers walking along the wooden path spiraling around the pit’s middle.  “They’re up early.”

Demeko nodded again.

“I would have thought the hunters would beat them.”

“The price of autonomy is chronic lateness.” Serana heaved herself out of the pit.  “Or a benefit depending on who you are.  But it’s always like this.  You don’t remember last year’s?”

“No.”  Torani closed his eyes, thinking.  “I wasn’t at the last one… I was a hunter then.  Didn’t get back to nest on time.  I missed everything.  And the year before that…  Do you remember being a worker?”

“No one does,” Demeko said with pointed finality.

Serana considered the question longer.  “At least you’ll get to see an initiation now.  Do you know how—?”

“Serana,” Demeko interrupted.  “Don’t interrogate higher royals.”

She sighed.  “Right.  Still getting used to his new rank.  Old habits—”

A growl rumbled out of the pit.  The workers stood in a huddled mass, as a hunter towered over them.  He brushed aside lithe bodies to reach his target: Kor.  She was youngest member of that rank.  And the rising prince.

One worker stepped protectively in front of her.  The hunter reached around him to pull her away.  The worker blocked him.  Baring his needle-sharp teeth, the hunter growled again.  The worker shrank down but stayed put.

“Should we intervene?” Torani asked.

Demeko shook his head.  “We’d have to punish the worker if we did.”

“What?  Why?”

“He’s defying a higher family member.”

“Only because the hunter is acting out of place.”

“The hunter is executing the princess’s orders.”

“The worker doesn’t know that.  Ilen asked for this at the last second.”

“They.  Will.  Figure.  It.  Out.”

Torani kneeled to climb down anyway, but the scene was already over.  The worker slammed into the wall.  One more menacing growl was all it took for him to back down.  Victorious, the hunter heaved the rising prince over his shoulder.  He carried her up the wall.  Then unceremoniously dropped her on the ground.  Snagged her elbow.  Tried to drag her towards the royals.

Kor’s expression blanched.  She broke away.  Scampered over the edge.  Catching her shirt collar, the hunter pulled her back.  Roughly gripped her neck.  A muted crackling where their skin met.  A little electrical coaxing to convince Kor that everything was fine.  Just do as she was told.  She followed the hunter after that.

When they reached the royals, the hunter knelt in reverence, releasing Kor.  She dropped to her belly to grovel.  Serana stepped forward to get her, but Demeko held up one finger.  “Did Princess Vaeilentha tell you what to do with Kor until she arrives?”

Serana rocked back on her heels.  “Well, no…”

Demeko’s posture stiffened further.  Confused, the hunter looked between the knights.  Clearly, he expected <i>something</i> for his efforts.  Meanwhile, Kor was slinking away.  Serana crossed her arms, waiting for Demeko’s decision.  The old knight turned to the failed prince.

“Really?  It’s on me now?”  Torani grimaced.  "Never mind.  I know what Ilen would want.”  He only half felt the frustration in his tone.  As much as he hated cleaning up the princess’s ill-conceived whims, it made him useful.  It gave him purpose.  He kneeled by Kor.  “It’s all right, you’re supposed to be here.”  Kor stopped retreating but remained flat as a pancake.

Turning to the hunter, “And you…”  Huh.  Torani knew this one’s name.  Perhaps they had hunted together when they were the same rank.  “Ander… you’ve done well.”  He touched the red spots along the hunter’s neck.  Ander straightened as a reward pulse shot through his system.  On release, he teetered to the side.  Torani steadied him.  “You should go back where you belong.”  Dazed and placid, Ander drifted away to join his rank-mates across the pit.

Torani returned his attention to Kor.  He pulled her onto her feet and gave her a quick hug.  Mumbling into her ear, “All this attention you’re not supposed to have.  And from royals no less.  I don’t remember what that’s like, but it must be confusing.”  The fear melted off the rising prince.  “Serana, take her for me, would you?”

Serana glanced at Demeko, but he had no say in the matter.  Afterall, Torani outranked them.  Technically, anyway.  Serana wrapped her arm around Kor’s shoulder.  “You just wait.  The princess will be here soon.”

“You were not asked to speak,” Demeko muttered.

“It’s all right, Demeko.  It’ll relax Kor.” The knight nodded without looking at the failed prince.  Torani fidgeted and glanced down.  “Or, if you have a better idea, I’m open to suggestions.”

Demeko shook his head.

Under his breath, “I didn’t think so.”  Torani glanced at the cage.  Inspecting the offerings was a good excuse to step away.

When he slid aside the viewing panel, the captives rushed away from the walls, forming a tight pack.  As if that would do any good.  Running his thumb over his canines, Torani wondered who the queen would pick.

His eyes locked onto the child.  What was she doing here?  Did one of the hunters have a bad night?  Or was there something special about this one?  He squinted.  She seemed unexceptional.  But he wanted a closer look.

Alone, she would have been easy to manipulate.  However, she was buried in the pack.  Directing a clickpulse at a specific target was hard.  Still, it was worth a try.  Torani opened his mouth to chirp the simple command: <I>COME</I>.

The child convulsed, shooting to her knees.  The adults covered their ears.  <I>COME</I>.  The child continued rising.  A man yanked her down, screaming, “Do not go!  Do not go!”  The other offerings moaned and cried.  Torani closed the viewing panel.  The queen would not appreciate him riling them up.

Returning to pit edge, he noticed Kor’s unnaturally dutiful expression.  Serana also looked stiff.  Apparently, Demeko <i>had</i> come up with some ideas for handling the worker.

Shaking his head, Torani corralled Kor to his side.  With the changing electrical signal, her expression shifted to joy.  Demeko’s disapproving aura was palpable.  Before Torani could invent an excuse to appease him, wood banged against rock.

The largest den’s heavy French doors had opened.  Rotero, the head knight, exited and stood at attention on the den’s front balcony.  Princess Vaeilentha followed, stretching her massive wings skyward.  Their milky membranes faded semitransparent at full length.  Climbing onto the balcony railing, she leapt forward and took flight.

She rose until she placed a hand on the tunnel’s ceiling.  From there, she studied the two white-blonde knights.  Faithful.  Ready to take orders.  And then she spotted the strawberry-blonde failed prince avoiding her gaze.  She landed pointedly in front of Torani.

He stepped back.   “Evening, Ilen.”

Vaeilentha shoved him aside to embrace Kor.  “There you are!  How’s my future prince?”

“Ilen!”  Her voice was giddy and excited.  No electrical manipulation required.

Torani cringed.  Jealousy was the wrong word for his feelings about Kor.  Her existence had earned him forgiveness.  Or at least made his inadequacy irrelevant.  She was hope.  The key to the future.  Still, it stung to know someone else would take the position <i>he</i> had been raised for.

An inviting warmth washed over him.  Even the knights’ postures relaxed.  Torani wrinkled his nose.  Pheromones.  Specifically, Vaeilentha’s pheromones.  She had no right to toxify the queen’s air with these inferior chemicals.  Unfortunately, he lacked the authority to tell her to stop.  To even suggest that her behavior was out of place.  But, so long as he opted out of breathing, he could silently defy that enticing saboteur.

Except she noticed.

Keeping her eyes focused on Kor, the princess clickpulsed, <I>COME</I>.  Torani steeled himself against her.  Vaeilentha spared him a bemused smile, the very tips of her retracted, black, secondary fangs showing.  <I>COME</I>.  Torani lost one step towards her before detouring around the knights.  The queen was out, and even from this distance her presence overwhelmed Vaeilentha’s.

Queen Azehralia sat on the balcony railing, chatting quietly with Rotero.  Though only a knight, he was the oldest family member besides the queen herself.  Perhaps he was even one of the first brood.  He was her righthand regardless.  The queen stretched her stubby wings, a vestige from her days as a princess.  She slid off railing and glided to the workers below her.  Rotero took to the wall, deftly keeping pace with her.

When Azehralia landed on the spiral, the workers swarmed to her side.  Dropping to their knees.  Leaning against her.  Hanging onto her flowing, white dress.  She kissed each one on the forehead.  Above her, the hunters tossed a rope down the pit wall.  She bid the workers farewell and ascended.

Once she was over the edge, the hunters momentary forgot their squabbles with one another.  They crowded tightly around her.  Each waiting their turn for a moment of her full attention.  All the usual ceremony.  Until she stepped away, and one hunter held on.  Rotero barked, “Enough!” and the hunter shrank back.  With a chuckle, the queen affectionately ruffled the offender’s white-blonde hair.  Everyone was excited.  All was forgiven.

As the queen joined the other royals, Demeko, Serana, and Kor dropped to their knees.  Torani and Vaeilentha bowed their heads.  Azehralia asked,  “Is everything ready?”  Quiet yeses all around.  “Very good.”  She turned to face her subjects across and below the pit.  Her bronzy hair flashed fiery red in the flicking light.

“Good evening.  We survived another long year.  That makes it… oh… 80-something?”

Rotero stepped to her side.  “83.”

“83 years since we began.  My, such a long time.  And this year has been eventful.  Many setbacks” — Torani looked down — “but also many wonderful surprises.  We are now 21 strong; the largest we’ve ever been.  Soon, Vaeilentha will start the sister nest, and we will not be alone anymore.  With any luck, she will encounter nests outside our range, reconnecting us to the larger network.  There is so much to look forward to.”  The queen laughed self-deprecatingly.  “But you all know I’m not one for long speeches.  Let’s see what the hunters found for us this year.”

The queen leisurely strode to the cage.  Rushing ahead, Rotero pulled out a thick band of keys.  Chains wrapped around the cage, fastened by three padlocks.  Rotero unlocked each then stepped aside.  The queen nodded to him in thanks as she slipped through the door.  Rotero ducked in after.  The other knights guarded the exit from any escape attempts.

The captives dashed to the far corner, hurting one another as they crammed tightly together.  The queen yanked one man aside.  Took a quick look at him.  Shoved him towards Rotero.  The knight trapped the man in the opposite corner.

Next, the queen examined a woman.  She appeared to approve.  That captive was shoved behind her.  When woman tried to return to the pack, the queen gave a deafening clickpulse.  <I>STAY</I>.  The woman fell to her knees.  The other captives froze.  The queen continued her appraisals calmly.  One-by-one sorting the offerings until she reached for the child.  The hook-nosed man darted in front of the girl, shouting, “No!”

With an endearing smile, the queen pulled him forward instead.  He struggled, but one electrical pulse killed the fight in him.  Dazed, he thought he heard something like, “Not very pretty, but good otherwise.”  He ended up in the corner with five others.  Numbly, he watched the queen remove the child from the dwindling pack and push her to Rotero.  In the end, the child’s corner included three captives.  The rejects.

The queen shepherded the rejects out of the cage.  Rotero made to stand at the exit, but Vaeilentha shooed him away.  She settled in his place with Kor.  Rotero looked unsure what to do.  Vaeilentha pushed him gently.  “Go join the others.  You deserve second pick this time.”  Reluctantly, Rotero joined the others in a circle around the queen and her quarry.

Without warning, Azehralia launched at the child.  Yanking her head to the side.  A sickening crack.  Ripping the girl’s throat out.  Biting deeper into the wound.  Draining her.  Dropping the body on its back with a dull thud.

For a moment, Azehralia stood with her eyes closed.  Savoring that taste.  This moment.  The ones yet to come.

She pounced on the body.  Kneeled on the ribcage.  Her thumb punctured the child’s chest under the sternum.  Prying that bone up.  Each rib buckling and shearing away.  The girl was dead, but her body jittered about as though it could save itself.  The chest cavity was open.  Retrieving the heart.  Its beat was fast and irregular.  The queen devoured it.

One encircled captive dropped to his knees.  The other remained on her feet, frozen in horror.  Azehralia went for the man on the ground next, repeating the ritual verbatim.  Then again on the woman.

Sated, she sat back, licking some spilled blood off her right hand.  With her left, she waved for the lower royals to have their fill.  They dove onto the fresh corpses.  Stripping skin to reach tender muscle.  Picking out the best organs.  Licking the veins clean of remnant blood.

Azehralia stood languidly, basking in the dreamy haziness of a full stomach.  She wandered to the cage and patted Kor on the arm.  “You may eat too.”  Kor stared with saucer eyes.  Workers never got second pick.  After a push from Vaeilentha, Kor stumbled to the feasting royals.  Serana growled at her.  Demeko and Rotero were no more accommodating.  Torani waved Kor over to share child’s corpse.

An amused hum escaped Azehralia.  However, concern crept into her features as she turned to Vaeilentha.  “You’re not eating.  Are you feeling all right?”

Vaeilentha nodded.  “I don’t think I can stomach second pick anymore.”

“Darling, you should have told me.  I would have shared.”

“No.  It’s your ceremony.”

The queen looked unsure.

“I asked one of the hunters to bring me something last night.  I’ve fed.”

“You’ve been so good through all of this…”   Azehralia sighed.  “Soon, it will be your time.  Speaking of which, I’ve been considering that day.  I have a surprise for you.”

“Oh?”

The queen nodded to the cage.  “If Torani says that there any are knights, I intend for you to have one.  Worst case, you will have a hunter.”

The princess’s eyes widened.  “As in, I name it?  Raise it?  <i>Mine,</i> mine?”

“It wouldn’t leave with you otherwise.” she chuckled.  “I want you to succeed.  If you leave with a prince and at least a hunter, you’ll survive whatever trials come your way.”

The princess nodded, dumbfounded.

When the lower royals finished their share, Serana dragged the bodies to the midpoint between the cage and the hunters.  They were already creeping closer, licking their teeth.  Arms wide, Serana called, “Breakfast time!”

All ten hunters blitzed to pile.  Hissing at one another.  Fighting over limbs.  Ripping off pieces they could protect.  There was still some good meat left.  The oldest hunters might kill the younger ones to get it.  The youngest knew better than to fight for it.  Take one mouthful of the good stuff then accept whatever lower quality organs remained.

Once the feeding frenzy subsided, the hunters tossed the mangled leftovers to the workers.  That caste dutifully shared what little was left for them.  Bone and gristle was discarded into the pit.

A flurry of hissing, cracking, and crunching rose as each scrap hit the floor.  The remaining grubs from the prior brood, the ones that should have risen already, made quick work of their meal.  The nest fell silent.

The queen nodded to Rotero.  Time for the next phase.  Rotero pulled a captive from the cage.  One of the teens.  No.  The hook-nosed man jumped to his feet.  Pried Rotero’s fingers from the teen’s arm.  Rotero growled.  The man swore at him.  He had already failed the child.  Some stupid sense of duty demanded that he stop this.  And what did he have to lose at this point anyway?!

Rotero changed tactics.  He pulled the hook-nosed man towards the cage door.  The man landed a punch.  Rotero grabbed the man’s throat.  Half-dragged, half-carried him out.  The man switched to kicking, scratching, flailing.  Rotero held on with both arms.

The queen glanced at Demeko.  Demeko took the hook-nosed man form Rotero.  One shock.  The man went limp.  Still conscious, but in too much pain to squirm, he was dragged to Azehralia.  She tilted his head to the side, musing, “Such fight in you.  I have high hopes for your fate.”

The man squeezed his eyes shut, not wanting to see what he knew was coming.  The queen’s black fangs extended.  Needle pricks piercing his neck, hitting the vein cleanly.  But then the queen withdrew.

Slowly, the hook-nosed man opened his eyes.  He was <i>alive?</i>  Anxiously, he glanced between the royals.  All wore neutral expressions.  He felt a tingling from queen’s bite, but nothing more.  He was alive and mostly unharmed.  In his confusion, he almost asked what was going on.  Why he was still in one piece.

The tingling itched.

The man tried to scratch it, but he was still restrained.  He wriggled his shoulders around, hoping his shirt collar would brush against the bite.  Out of nowhere, a searing pain drilled through his skull.  He gasped.  Grit his teeth.  Swore a prayer to whatever god he believed in.

His hands tensed as each agonizing wave shot through him.  He almost laughed.  Somehow, that pain became nothing compared to the infernal itch.  Demeko released him.  He collapsed.  Raked his dirty nails into the bite.  The tingling spread from his neck to his torso.  Demeko grabbed the man’s hands.  <I>STOP</I>.

Serana whistled, and a hunter tapped over.  She scrutinized him.  “You’re one of the new ones.  You know what to do, right?”  The hunter nodded and hoisted the man over his shoulder like a sack of potatoes.  Rotero yanked the next victim from cage.  The hook-nosed man barely heard the screaming.

His attention fixed on the icy chill in his veins.  On his muscles all contracting simultaneously.  His consciousness wavered.  His body landed on something hard.  Small hands danced over him.  Picked him up.  A stench of gore and bodily fluids stained those fingers.  That was his last mortal memory.
