Torani’s “hunt” had been uninspired.  Passive.  Mediocre.  Maybe Rek would feel differently when he was the one making the grab.  He doubted it.

And watching the food while Torani delt with the car was boring!  Though, maybe it was unfair to judge food’s entertainment value while it was unconscious.  He toed at her leg.  No response.  He sighed.

He wondered how easily limbs would tear from an intact body.  It was a simple feat when the meat had been stripped away.  As she was, it might take some additional effort, but she seemed fragile.  He wanted to try it.  Crawling forward, he reached for her.  Stopped.  Looked at the sky.  Nowhere near dawn.  He sat back.

Rek had received three simple instructions:  Do not untie her.  Bleed her out before ripping her apart–it would be cruel not to.  At dawn, dig.

His hand wandered to a divot he had carved into the earth.  Earlier, he had complained that he forgot how to make tunnels.  That this ground felt so much harder than the bone sand.  How was he supposed to dig?  Torani promised Rek it would come to him when he needed it.  He scraped at the divot again.  There was no way he could bury himself under this red clay.

A halting, muffled groan.  Rek shot to attention.  His gaze fixed on the woman.  She shook her head, blinking in the darkness.  Cautiously, he crawled closer.  When she saw him, her breathing quickened.  He stopped, sure she would start screaming.  She stayed quiet.  Confused, he tilted his head, examining her from all angles.

She relaxed, and Rek eased back.  They stared at one another.  His instincts warned him not speak to her.  However, silence had not been one of Torani’s rules.  Only royal rules mattered at the moment.  Smug with his justification, he squeaked, “Hi!  I’m Rek.” 

The woman squirmed to move her arms, but they were tied down.  She leaned to the side so Rek could see her hand and waved from her wrist.  He smiled with glee.  She was willing to cooperate.

“You know, I’ve never seen one of you alive before.”  He sniffed the air.  “You smell good.”  Both her perfume and her flesh.  He licked his lips and leaned in.  Reached out to touch her.  She flinched, and he retracted.  Her eyes screwed shut.  Her eyebrows knit together.  He shrank down.  “I’m not trying to scare you.”

She peeked at him before fully opening her eyes.  Holding her hand straight, she invited him to shake.  He vaguely remembered that greeting ritual.  Carefully, he took her hand.  Her fair skin looked so dark compared to his.  It radiated a comfortable heat.  Hotter than his fever but welcoming instead of sickening.

He sighed as he released her.  “Sorry I’m going to eat you, by the way.  It’s nothing personal.  I tried eating a cricket earlier.  It didn’t work out.  They don’t taste very good.”

She laughed weakly.  He smiled.  It sounded like she must have a beautiful voice under the gag.  A shame.  As if she had read his mind, she pointed at the gag and raised her eyebrows.

He shook his head.  “Torani said I’m not supposed to untie you.  That you’ll run away if I do.”  She gave him a serious look and shook her head, pointing more insistently.  Technically, Torani had said nothing about the gag.  “I’m really not supposed to...”

She gave him a pleading look.

Rek bit his lip.  He wanted her to talk to him.  To hear her voice.  “Fine, I’ll do it.  But I have questions I want you to answer.  And if you scream, I have to kill you.  Okay?”  He reached forward.  “Don’t scream.”

She nodded.  He untied the cloth around her face and dropped it.  Patiently, he waited while she worked the fabric lump out of her mouth.  It took too long.  He snagged its end and pulled it out.

She coughed to clear her throat.  A hoarse whisper, “Thank you, Rek.  My name’s Elizabeth.”

He sounded out the name syllable-by-syllable.  “You must be a prince or princess.”

“A what—?  No, we don’t have any such thing.  Not in America.”

“America…”  A meaningless name for a meaninglessly large place.  “Then what rank does a four-syllable name mean for you?”

She hesitated.  “It’s hard to explain, but I <i>am</i> important.”

“How so?”

Taking her time, Elizabeth thoughtfully chose the correct words.  “I keep information.  Secret information.  People’s lives would fall apart without me.  They’ll notice if I don’t come back.”

“That’s… a real shame for them.  I’m sure they’ll get over it though.”

Elizabeth looked down, then back up.  “I suppose you don’t have much power to make decisions here.  Since your name is so short.”

“I mean—yes, but—I’m <i>almost</i> a hunter.  Then my name with be <i>Er</i>-rek, and I’ll run my own hunts!”  Suddenly, his hunter name sounded better.  Familiar instead of foreign.

“That’s a good name.”

Rek’s heart fluttered.  “I agree.”  No time to dwell on the compliment.  He had more important matters to discuss.  “Why do you look so much like me?”

“What do you mean?”

“You’re a little more… colorful than I am, but, other than your dull teeth and missing spots, we pretty much look the same.”

Elizabeth shook her head.  “Don’t you know where vampires come from?”

“What are—” Blood-sucking monsters.  His mental caricature of “vampire” did not match his real experience, but it was close enough.  “We don’t call ourselves that.  We’re the family.”

“So where does <i>the family</i> come from?”

“Grubs.”

“Grubs?  You mean like worms?”

“No.  The lowest members of the family.   Grubs become workers who become hunters… and then knights, which become princes and princesses… and then queens and kings.”  He had never spoken the order before.  And “King” was a word he had never heard in the nest.  Surely kings were a thing too, right?  Even though their family—well, Zehra’s family—lacked one.

Elizabeth sighed, calling Rek’s attention back to reality.  “And where do grubs come from?”

He considered it.  “I don’t know.  I don’t remember.”

Her tone dropped gravely.  “You used to be what I am.”

“I was food?  Huh…”  What an odd way to go.  To ascend from being the prey to the predator.  “Well, I’m glad I’m not anymore.  I’d rather not be eaten.”
 
“So, you can understand why I don’t want to be eaten either.”

“Yes…”

“Then let me go.”

Rek shook his head.  “I can’t.  I’m starving.  This is just the way things are.”  No matter how pretty and sweet and wonderful she was.

“I understand you have to eat, but you don’t have to eat <i>me</i>.  What if I brought you someone else?”

Laughing, “Why?  So, they can promise to bring someone else instead?  No one <i>wants</i> to be eaten.”

“What if I brought you <i>two</i> people?”

Now, that was a better deal.  Rek crossed his arms.  Would she really do that?  Could he trust her?  She seemed trustworthy.  Reasonable even.

“More than that, Rek, what if came back every night with someone new for you?”

“But that’s hunting.  That’s supposed to be my job.”

“You don’t want to eat good people, do you?”

“N-no?”

“Well, you’ve already caught a good person.  Me!  But when you took me from the road, you couldn’t tell, could you?”

“I mean—” Guilt crept through him.  “No.  I don’t really know what a bad person looks like.”

“You can’t tell by looking, Rek.  That’s the problem.  But, as a keeper of information, I know who is good and who is not.  I could bring you the bad ones.  It benefits you and us.  Don’t you see that?”

The idea was so simple, yet revolutionary.  A symbiotic partnership.  The nest could feed safely.  The food stock would… the words crime, poverty, and injustice came to him.  Concepts too large and abstract to understand.  He left it at believing the food would be happier.  “It sounds good… But if that could work, why aren’t we already doing it?”

“Maybe no one’s thought of it.  Maybe I’m the first person to offer to help.”  She shrugged.

He shook his head.  “Torani’s smart.  He would already be doing this if it made sense.  I’ll ask him later why we don’t, okay?  Maybe he’ll agree it’s a good idea!  As long as he gets back before dawn.  If he doesn’t, I am going to eat you.  Sorry.”

Elizabeth’s disappointed expression stung him.  She looked away.  Rek scrambled to find the right words to appease her.  “I’m sure he’ll be back though!”

She smiled weakly, signaling that she knew he had done his best.  And his best was not good enough.

He ran a hand through his white-blonde hair.  “Elizabeth, really.  I haven’t eaten properly in… ever.  I’m going crazy!  Torani was worried I would start killing the other workers if I didn’t come with him tonight.  And I think he’s right!  I can’t let you go.”

She licked her lips.  “What if you took only a little?”

“What do you mean?”

“I can let you have a bit of my blood.  Enough to tide you over until I can bring someone else back.”

“I don’t think I’m allowed to do that.”

“Rek, please.  Torani might not believe me like you do.  Let me prove to you both that I want to help.  I’m a good person.  I wouldn’t lie to you!  Trust me.  I’ll bring someone else tomorrow.”

Rek rubbed his face, squeezing his eyes shut.  His instincts warned him that this was stupid.  Torani would be furious.  But he liked her.  He wanted to believe her.  More than that, he wanted Elizabeth to live.  He had to help her.  To take the compromise.  “Okay.  But I’m going to get into huge trouble.  You <i>have</i> to come back!”

“I promise.”

Okay.  He committed to it.  His conflicted thoughts faded as he realized he was about to eat.  Not scraps.  Not fat and gristle.  Not even organs.  No.  Blood.  The pinnacle tissue.  His first taste of it.  His mouth watered as he placed a hand on her shoulder.  Leaned into her neck.  Opened his mouth to—

“No, Rek!  You might kill me that way!”

A growl escaped him.  She shuddered.  He ran his tongue over his teeth as he gathered himself.  “Then how?”

“M-my wrist.  That way we can put pressure on the wound when you’re done.  So it’ll stop bleeding.” Rek nodded, bending over to reach it.  “Please be gentle.”

He hummed in agreement.  Gave her wrist the slightest nick.  She peeped a whimper in response.  No blood.  He frowned.  “Sorry, I didn’t get it.  I haven’t done this before.”

“That’s okay.”

Rek tried again.  Pushing a little deeper.  Slicing a little faster.  This time he tasted sweet iron.  Just a lick of euphoria before it stopped.  The third slice hit its target.  His mouth filled slowly.  The fear of hurting her keep him from biting in.  From sucking everything out of her.  And then the ravenous hunger eased.

He curled against her warm body, wishing this connection would last forever.  There was no reason to rip people apart.  No one had to die.  He just needed an endless supply of <i>this</i>.  These mouthfuls of absolute heaven.

“Rek, I’m getting dizzy.”

He swallowed what was in his mouth and let go of Elizabeth.  Blood trickled from the cut down into her palm.  Its movement fascinated him.

“You need to put pressure on it, or it won’t stop.  Use the gag.”

Absentmindedly, he fumbled for the gag.  Held it before the wound.  Kept staring at the red.  He licked her skin clean then wrapped the fabric tightly around her wrist.  He sat back with a longing sigh.

“Was that not enough?”

“There will never be enough.  But I can wait now.  I can…” Rek shook his head.  Made to speak again, but his mind felt foggy.  Distant.

“Rek?”

“G-gimme a minute.”  He laid down.  Her heat permeated his skin.   Deep within him.  Hotter than the fever.  But he no longer felt feverish.  The itch in his throat subsided.  Swallowing still felt weird though.  

He wrapped his hands around his neck, feeling a new rib of something hard under his skin.  He stretched his jaw in a wide yawn, moving the structure up and down.  Teasing at it.  Prodding it.  He vomited out a nonsense clickpulse.  Elizabeth jerked.  Wide-eyed, “Sorry!  I just realized I can do that.”

Elizabeth shook her head.  “Come on, Rek.  We had a deal.”

He sat up dejectedly.  He wanted her to stay.  Forever.  As his food.  Or his lover.  Or some hybrid both?  The mixed option was appealing.  Her stare on him hardened.  Fine.  There was no rush.  They would see one another again.  He would slowly develop their relationship.

As he untied the cord holding her in place, his entire body pulsed in sync with his heart.  A vibration that reached from the red spots lining body to his brain, ending with a buzz behind his eyes.  Another manifestation of something new.  What else could hunters do that workers could not?

He rubbed the spot below his palm with his thumb.  A shock of confused emotions sparked through him.  It triggered a fragmented memory.  He had experienced this before.  With Torani.  Being named Rek.  Yes.  That was it.  But hunters never named family members.  Surely this new trick could do more.

“Is everything all right back there?”

Rek crawled around to face Elizabeth.  Rested his forehead on hers.  Fingertips encircling her neck.  Resting his palms against her skin.  Electricity prickled through them as he tuned into her pulse.  Her rhythm.  Her eyes flickered shut.  He whispered, “Thank you.”

The words were redundant.  As long as they were like this, she could feel his gratitude.  She pressed her head against his.  He wanted to leave it be.  Stop there and finish untying her.  To cherish this moment and be done with it.  A quiet, cynical voice suggested he test her loyalty.  It won.

“I can’t wait to see you again.  Don’t forget your promise.  Come back.  Tell me you’ll come back.”

“I won’t.” A contented, dreamy haziness filled her voice.

“Why?”

“Because you’re a monster.  You’re evil.”

Leaning back, he left his hands on her neck.  He kept feeding her an imitation of that warm comfort he had felt while drinking from her.  A contrast to the bitter betrayal dancing in his mind.  It seemed wrong to hurt something he cared about.  Even if she had planned to hurt him.  “I think I love you.  I’m sad we couldn’t work this out.”

He snapped her neck with one swift motion.

His hands slowly dropped away.  Her heart kept beating, piquing his hunger.  He cracked his knuckles.  Time to see how easily intact limbs sheared off.
