When Torani rejoined Rek, he was met with carnage.  Elizabeth’s torso was still tied to the tree, but her limbs and head had been roughly chewed off.  The heart and liver were eaten.  Other organs laid in a pile where her left leg should have been.

In Rek’s search for the good meat, he had somehow turned one of her breasts inside out.  A lump of fatty, yellow mammary tissue slowly slid down her chest, its outer edges drying and curled.  One leg and one arm were set aside untouched.  The skin from the other two limbs lay folded in a neat pile.  A mound of fat sat next to it.  Bones and cartilage were stacked beyond them.

Rek had filled up by then.  Otherwise, he would not have been so methodical about the dismemberment.  Satiety led to boredom and then curiosity.  His dissection had taught him so much about the human form’s strengths and weaknesses.

Torani sat down in front of Rek.  “I hoped you would wait a little longer.  I see you used the extra time to turn your meal into an art project.”

“Elizabeth lied to me.  I wasn’t happy about it.  I’m over it now.”

“Eliza—?  You talked to the food.”

“You didn’t tell me not to.”  He pointed at the untouched limbs.  “I left those for you.”

“Don’t change the subject.  Didn’t your instincts warn you not to talk to her?”

Rek considered lying.  “I had some questions for her.”

Torani sighed.  “Well, I hope you got them answered, because you will never speak to—”

“I don’t want to.  The food lies.  There’s no point in talking to them.”

“Don’t interrupt me.”

“I’m telling you why you don’t need to worry about it.”  Torani crossed his arms.  Rek huffed.  “What?”

“You know you shouldn’t be speaking to me like this.  I outrank you.”

Rek cleared his throat.  “I thought you wanted me to be… I don’t know.”  The word <i>equal</i> floated through his mind.  A gut feeling beyond his instincts warned him not to use it.  “You’ve always pushed me to talk openly with you.”

“I want <i>that</i>, but I don’t want you be disrespectful towards royals.  You already started off on the wrong foot with Demeko.  Don’t make it worse.”

“All right, I’m sorry.”

“You can still be open with me.  Just be polite.  Don’t interrupt.”

“Okay.”  Rek hoped his guilty tone appeased Torani.  He felt none of it.  This was not the conversation he expected to have when Torani returned.  Raising in rank should have made them closer.  Instead, he was being pushed down.  He took a deep breath to calm himself.  “You’re not eating.”

Torani picked up the arm, wiggling it.  It rigidly held its position.  “I appreciate the thought, but maybe it’s better for you to have it.”

“I’m full.  <i>It’s wonderful</i>.”

“We’ll see how you feel in an hour.”

“Sure.  So, what did you do about the car.”

A huff.  “I’ve got a spot away from the road where I leave them.”

“You just left it?  You buried it, right?”

“No.  I don’t need to.”

“So, it’s sitting there.  With a bunch of other cars.  Like a… a car graveyard.  And no one finds them?”

“The other hunters weren’t bothered by that…”

“Then they’re dumb.”  Rek straightened up.  “How come the food doesn’t find them?”

“It’s like this…”  Torani gestured meaninglessly with his hands.  “Keep this between us, all right?  I don’t think Zehra would be happy to learn what’s going on.  It’s a necessary risk.”

More secrets.  More treason.  And Torani probably had others that Rek had not stumbled upon yet.  Oh well.  He was adjusting to the idea that he would have to be two-sided.  Outwardly, a well-behaved family member.  Inwardly... whatever he and Torani were doing.  At least until Torani figured out that “something better” for them.  Whatever <i>that</i> meant…

Rek shrugged.  “We’re family.  You can trust me.”

For a moment Torani looked away.  His mouth slightly open but speechless.  Resetting his jaw, a slight grin formed.  Apparently, Rek had said the right thing.

“I considered burying the car the first time I hunted like this.  It’s not practical.  It would take all night to hide something that big.  Instead, I spent an hour figuring out how to drive the car.  I rode around until I found a secluded spot with tree cover.  I left it there.

“Night after night, I added another car to my hiding spot.  I think the most I got up to was 14.  When I drove up with the 15th, my lot was empty.

“I panicked.  Turned around and drove into the plains until the car stopped going.  The next night, I left another car there.  It didn’t take long until those cars were gone too.

“I tried a few other spots, but it made no difference.  The cars always disappeared.  I gave up finding clever hiding places and reused the original spot.  Things became regular after that.  Every night I left a car.  By the next, it was gone.

“Once, I was out hunting too late.  I killed the food and buried myself with it near the car.  Around midmorning, a rumbling engine woke me.  Voices.  Chattering.  Two cars driving away.  Naturally, when I returned to the surface the next night, the car was gone.  The food had reclaimed it.”

Rek nodded slowly.  “So, we <i>can</i> work with the food?”

“That’s not… no.  This is an odd situation.  One I’m not happy with.  If I ever get the opportunity to go after out the ones taking the cars, I will.”

“But they’re helping us.  Taking away… evidence.  No one else will find a car graveyard and start wondering what happened to all the drivers.  Why would you want to end that?”

“I don’t understand why they’re doing it, but it’s not to help us.  If they realize the nest is here, they will come after us.”

“Not if they want more cars.”

Mumbling, “Overly simple logic.”  Louder, “Caution is warranted here.”

“Are hunters supposed to be cautious?”

“A healthy dose of it will keep you alive.  But what about the rest of you.”  Torani looked Rek up and down.  “You’re still on the lean side, but you don’t look like a worker anymore.  Can you walk for me?”

Rek eased into standing but wobbled through his first step.  He felt heavier.  Stopping, he flexed his hands and wrists.  Rocked back and forth on his heels to find his center of gravity.  He looked down at Torani.  “Am I taller?”

“You should be.”  Torani rose.  “Yeah.  You were only up to here on me before.”  His hand hovered mid-chest.

Rek glanced down to see it.  So, he had gained few inches.  He still had to look up to make eye contact though.

“I hoping you’ll get a little taller still.”  Torani squeezed Rek’s upper arm.  “And thicker.  Walk for me.”

After another false start, Rek found his new stride.  Quicker and longer than his old one.  Smoother.  He still felt that weakness in his right leg, but it had lessened.  His knee no longer shook, even with the added weight of his bulkier frame.

“Are you trying to hide your limp?”

“No.”

“Good.  I don’t think I would have noticed it if I wasn’t looking for it.  Should be easy to hide now.  If we’re lucky, maybe it’ll be gone by tomorrow.”

“Maybe…”  He hoped Torani’s heart was not set on that.  On something Rek could not force to happen.  “I can give clickpulses now, by the way.  Also, this.”

He took Torani’s wrist.  Sent him a shock of that calmness he had felt with Elizabeth.  Torani’s skin grew warmer from the static, but he remained alert.  Torani smirked.  What was Rek doing wrong?  

Releasing Torani, “That’s… You felt what I did, right?”

“I did.”

“You didn’t respond like Elizabeth did...”

“No?”

“She… went out of it.”

“Oh.  So something more like this?”

Torani touched the side of Rek’s neck.  Rek’s eyelids drooped as a lazy drowsiness crept over him.  A true reflection of the feeling he had failed to inspire in Torani.  Rek swayed.  His knees wobbled.  He plummeted to the ground.  The impact shocked him back to reality.  He scrambled to his feet.  “That’s not fair!”

Torani laughed.  “What’s not fair?  I’m higher rank.  Of course I’m better at this than you.  One day, you’ll catch up.”

“We’ll see about that once I’m a knight then.”

“Barely a hunter but already have your eyes sent on knighthood?  I like your ambition, Rek.”

“It’s <i>Er</i>-rek.”  A  grimace flickered through Torani’s expression.  “I’m sorry, I’m not trying to be rude.  I just thought—” Torani held up a finger.  Rek bit down on his words.

“That you’d earned your name.  You have.”  He placed his hand on the hunter’s shoulder.  “It was my mistake to not use it, <i>Errek</i>.”
