Torani and Errek approached the nest with two live ones and two corpses.  Too much to run back with.  A shame.  Torani had hoped to use the trip to test Errek’s speed and stamina.  He still worried whether Errek would keep up with the other hunters in that regard.  At least he was handling himself well otherwise.

Now fully ascended, the top of Errek’s head reached Torani’s shoulders.  His jacket was a touch big on him, but it would fit by the time he reached knight.  He carried the two corpses as though they weighed nothing.  He was strong.  Attentive.  Eager.  Exactly what the nest needed from its newest hunter.

Corralling the lives ones closer, Torani realized he had walked into the tunnel alone.  He looked back at the exit.  Errek stood outside, staring at the sky.  Torani remembered Serana reminiscing about the stars.  Somehow, his nest would have a permanent view of them.  “Errek, come on.”

Errek’s gaze darted to Torani then back to the sky.  Reluctantly, he ambled in.  Demeko would have been unimpressed.  Hopefully, Errek would be granted the same leniency as Kordi.  If not, Torani would have to push him harder to stay in place.

Errek stopped a half step behind Torani.  Before Torani could ask why, he heard running bootsteps.  Serana skidded to a halt before them.  Through grit teeth, “Where in the hell have you been!?”

“Out.  Hunting.  You knew that.”

“For three nights!?  Forget it.  Who cares?  You have no idea how much trouble you’re in!”

“I mean… I think I have an idea.”

“No.  You don’t.”  The last word rumbled out with a growl.  Her wild eyes were a reflection of the queen’s wrath.

Torani backed into Errek.  Perhaps he <i>had</i> miscalculated how angry Azehralia would be.  He was still certain he could talk his way out it though.  Maybe this would be a good lesson for Errek.  It would demonstrate why it was so important that—

Serana snatched the food from Torani.  “Get in there!”

“Okay, I’m going.”  Torani side stepped around her.

“You too, Rek!”

Before the hunter could correct her, Torani cut in.  “H-he’s <i>Er</i>rek now.  Can’t you tell?”

“MOVE IT!”

Torani quick walked down the tunnel with Serana on his heels.  Errek danced to his side.  “What’s going on?  Why are we in trouble?  I thought going out was okay, because you—”

“<i>You’re</i> not in trouble.  <i>I’m</i> in trouble.  You only did—”

Serana snapped, “Don’t assume the queen will see it that way!”

“He did what I asked!”

“I’m the wrong person to discuss that with.”

Torani swallowed an insult.  He had offended the queen.  Serana was a knight.  She had no choice but to channel Azehralia’s outrage.  Of course that made her sound like Rotero.

A panicked whisper from Errek, “What are you going to say to the queen?”

“I’m going to tell her why I had to do it.”

A groan for Serana.  “Torani, just beg for forgiveness.  You’re going to get killed otherwise!”

“Rana, I know what I’m doing.  Trust me.”

“No.  You don’t.”

As they entered the main cavern, Demeko and Rotero seized Torani.  Rotero?  Out and about without the—?  Azehralia sat on a rock by the sconce.

Torani crumpled into himself.  Had she been there, night after night, awaiting his return?  Not good.  Even at this distance, her pheromones projected a terrifying aura.  However, they did not mask her hunched shoulders.  Her gaunt frame.  The deep bags under her eyes.

Azehralia was not focused on Torani.  Her gaze followed Errek as Serana led him to the cage.  Why did cage have so many bodies in it?  Torani turned to Demeko, speaking in a harsh whisper.  “Tell me we’re not preparing for initiation already.”

No response.

“Answer me, Demeko.”

Rotero did the honors.  “We are.  Now, be silent.”

Serana took the corpses from Errek and left him standing awkwardly by himself.  Azehralia glanced between Demeko and Errek.  With a nod, the knight released Torani and marched to the cage.  He snatched Errek by the arm and dragged him before Azehralia.

Thankfully, Errek went along with it.  When Demeko shoved him forward, Errek hesitated but dropped to one knee with his head down.  Torani mentally begged Errek to say, “My queen.”  The hunter remained silent.

“You’ve ascended.  Congratulations,” Azehralia said flatly.  “I should already know your name, but I don’t.  Enlighten me.”

“It’s Errek… my queen.”  He cleared his throat to cover a cough.  This was his first full-brunt taste of Azehralia’s pheromones.  It would be overwhelming for him.

“Er-rek.”  Her tone was unreadable.  She lifted his chin and examined his face from all angles.  “Do you know where the hunter’s barracks is?”

“Y-yes?”  Distant.  Dazed.  What emotion was Azehralia dosing him with?  Torani balled his hands into fists.

“Then go.”

Torani exhaled shallowly as Errek stumbled to his feet.  Listed to the side.  Shaking his head, he made his way to the pit.

Without taking her eyes off Errek, “Serana, make sure he gets there.  And stays.”  Serana saluted and followed Errek down.  “Demeko, return to your usual duties.”  Stiffly, he made his exit.  Azehralia’s attention finally settled on Torani.  With a weary sigh, she ran a hand through her bronzy hair.  “Why do you keep doing this to me?”

“We’re not getting enough food back to the nest.  The workers are starving.  He—”

“We are not starving, Torani.”

“He was on the verge of ascending but not doing it.  I gave him one good meal, and he reached hunter.   That’s how close he was!  He wasn’t going to get there on grub scraps.  Especially now that you’ve <i>apparently</i> decided it was a good idea to host initiat—!”

“Watch.  Your.  Tone.”

He swallowed.  “Zehra, if I had left him down there, he was going to eat the workers.  Instead, he’s ready to contribute to the hunt.  You told me before that I don’t think enough about the entire family.  This time I did!”

“By acting behind my back to give your favorite special treatment?  By disregarding my right to first pick?  By disobeying my <i>direct</i> orders?  I made it clear that you are not to take actions that affect the family without consulting me.”

Rising to her feet, Azehralia regarded her nails’ sharpness.  “Though, perhaps I should have realized it before: if I have to tell you something that <i>basic</i>, then perhaps you’re not fit to be part of my family!”

“Don’t you get it?  Ander was right.”

“About what, Torani?”

“You’ve lost touch with everything outside your chambers.  And not just our territory.  You barely know the family.  You don’t see how little food is passed down the ranks.  We need more hunters!  I knew you wouldn’t allow this unless I proved the difference it would make.  You saw Errek.  Ru’s close too.  I want to take him out next!  But, if even after seeing the good it does, you still disapprove, then I’ll defer to your judgement.”

A bitter laugh shook Azehralia.  “How charitable of you!  To give <i>me</i> the opportunity to lead.  As if that <i>wasn’t</i> my privilege!” She snagged Torani’s shirt collar.  “This is <i>my</i> nest, Torani.  It is not your place to defy me to prove some point.”

“Nor is it a prince’s obligation to agree with his queen.  If anything, I—!”

“IT IS HIS OBLIGATION TO OBEY!”

Torani and Rotero dropped to their knees.  Her words echoed through the pit.  She muffled a cough with both hands, so it would not do the same.  She kept hacking, barely remaining on her feet as she bent over in pain.

When it finally stopped, she slowly pulled her hands away.  Licked something dark off one of them.  Took a deep breath to center herself.  She walked forward and placed her fingertips along Torani’s jawline.  Shame surged through him, making him want to look down.  She kinked his head further upwards with her thumbs to force him to maintain eye contact.

“Are you doing this because you want me to end you but don’t know how to ask?”

“No.”

“Then why?”

A hysterical giggle burbled out of him.  “Zehra, you’re sick.  You’re dying.  I don’t want the nest to go down with you!”  He felt Rotero’s nails bite into his skin.

“I see.”  She stopped channeling artificial guilt.  “So.  You’re afraid of losing the family?”

“I’m terrified of it!”

“Oh, Torani.”  A deep sigh.  “You spend too much time thinking.  Too much time acting.  Too little time discussing with me.”  She turned around to fetch her rock.  Rolling it in front of Torani, she sat, resting her head on her hands.  “I’ve put everything I had into these last broods.  Everything.  And it’s paid off.  Look how many royals I’ve produced.  And two princes… even if you had some trouble at the end.

“But it’s taken a toll on me.  Unfortunately, this brood will be no different.  We can’t afford any more workers.  The grubs must all be hunters or better.  Otherwise, we’ll have to kill them.

“This will be the last brood like that, though.  Once Vaeilentha is on her own, I can rest.  I will get better.  I’m not dying, Torani, I’m exhausted.  We’re going through a rough patch.  You’re young, so it’s the first one you’ve seen.  But, trust me, they come and go.  We will survive this.  There’s nothing to be afraid of.  No reason to take drastic measures.  Do you understand?”

“Yes…  Maybe…  Maybe I’ve been away from the nest too much.”  Was that the pheromones talking?  Or did he really mean it?  In focusing on his family, he had forgotten that this one still mattered to him.  “I never get to see you.  And even when I do—”

“I know.  Things will change once Vaeilentha leaves.”  She placed a hand on his shoulder.  One finger connected not-so-subtly with his neck.  “But, for now, so long as we’re here, talking, is there anything else I should know about?  Any other plans or fears?  Anything you’ve held back?”

Say nothing about Errek.  <i>Say absolutely nothing about Errek!</i>  “I… might be in love with Serana.”  That admission would not hurt her.  She could handle herself.  She would be all right.  She always was.

A frustrated sigh.  “Torani, that’s not appropriate.  You outrank her.  Her priority is me, not you.”

“Is what I’m doing with her so different from what you’re doing with Rotero?”  Her free hand impacted his face.

“Never—!” Azehralia took a deep, uneven breath.  Exhaled slowly.  “It is not your place to assess my relationship with other family members.  Nor to compare any of them to your desperate attempts to replace Vaeilentha!”  She paused to calm herself.  “My privileges are <i>not</i> yours.  You are beneath me.  You will act your rank.  You will leave the knights alone.”

“Do I really outrank Serana?  I’m not truly a prince”

“You chose to be a prince when I gave you Errek.  You cannot be a prince and a knight.”

“My title is <i>knight-prince</i>.”

“Pick one, Torani.”

“P-prince.  Of course.”

“Then you’ll leave Serana alone?”

“…Yes.”

“Good.  Anything <i>else</i> I should know?”

Stop asking!  His deal with Vaeilentha came to mind.  That would get him killed.  End all hope of having his family.  What else could he say?  Just say no.  One word.  Make it come out.  “I’m not afraid Errek will fail to reach knight anymore.  If he’s well fed, it’ll happen.”

“I see… Are you still afraid he might fail to go <i>beyond</i> knight?”

“Yes.”  <i>Dammit</i>.

“I thought so.  No more secrets, Torani.  One way or another, I always find out.”  Azehralia withdrew her hand from Torani.  He looked away, horrified.  Apparently, a prince could only lie for his family so long as a queen was not using her full might against him.  “Does he know what he is?”

“No.  He just knows he’s a rising royal.”

“We’ll keep his true potential between ourselves then.  We wouldn’t want Vaeilentha to hear.  It would upset her.”  She crossed her arms.  “<i>Er-rek</i>.  That’s an ugly name, Torani.  We’ll fix it once he reaches knight.  Somehow.  We may have to exchange some syllables.

“As for you though…”  She shook her head.  “I don’t quite know what to do with you.  I see such potential, but you’re so disruptive.  Bold and yet afraid.  I’m sure you don’t remember, but, when you were a worker, we had an initiation.  I gave my speech like I always do.  At the end, you yelled up, ‘Thank you, Zehra!’  That’s how we knew what you were destined for.

“Later, I sent Demeko to get you.  Of course, you ran.”  She laughed.  “When he finally caught up, you bit him.  For such a tiny thing, you left quite a mark.  It’s no wonder he’s been grumpy with you since.”

The queen tapped her forehead to Torani’s.  Her hands went back to his neck.  Torani’s eyes flickered shut.  Warmth.  Belonging.  Acceptance.  How had he earned <i>this</i>?  An emotional concoction sweeter than any reward pulse.  This was how Serana made him feel.  Except it was far more potent.

“You were my first prince and Vaeilentha my first princess.  I was certain everything would be perfect between you.  But I spoiled her.  I turned a blind eye when she encouraged you to act out.  When she set impossible expectations for you.  I still let her get away with too much.  It’s too late to teach her better…

“And, because of that, you’ve never known your place.  You’re driven to find it.  To prove yourself.  To her.  To me.  To the family.  But you don’t have to.  I know your worth, Torani.  I value your commitment to the family.  I just need you to behave.  Can you do this?”

“Yes!  I’m sorry!  I just wanted—!”

Azehralia placed a finger over his lips.  “You wanted to be a good prince.  I know.  And I haven’t done as much as I could have to help you achieve that.  I spend so much time worrying about Vaeilentha that I forget to consider you.  You became mine when she rejected you, but I never owned that responsibility.  I’ve done you a disservice in continuing to withhold what you’ve earned:  Your full title.”

“I-I don’t understand.  You’re angry at me.  I disobeyed you.  But you’re rewarding me?”

“This is not a reward.  It’s your right.  It means no more hunting.  No more confusing the knights with your half-status.  You will stand by my side as a prince should.  Do you understand, <i>En</i>torani?”

A shiver passed through him.  The sentiment of identity.  As if he were a worker gaining his first syllable.  A part of him revolted against it.  The rest of him reveled in it.  He had a place again.  The one he had been raised for.  And with a full-fledged queen no less!  That made the entire nest his family.  There was no reason to leave.  No reason to fight.  And every reason to support Azehralia.

He nodded.  She pulled him to his feet.  He swayed, but she steadied him.

“Unfortunately, it will take time before you can <i>physically</i> stand by me.  Vaeilentha.  Need I say more?”  Azehralia shook her head.  “You have to stay out of the way until she’s gone.  Regardless, you know your place now.  Stay.  In it.”

He felt the command as strongly as a click pulse.  His new orders.  His new place.  His new chains.  <i>Everything he ever wanted</i>.  Entorani stepped back and bowed deeply.  “Yes, Zehra.”
