“Come with us anyway.  Just watch.”  Worith held out her hand.

Errek shook his head.  “Entorani expects me to wait.”

Worith exchanged frowns with her partner Kalen.

“Prince’s orders.  What can you do?”  Errek shrugged.

Kalen rolled his eyes, muttering, “Excuses.”  He made for the exit.  Worith gave one last unimpressed sigh before following.  They had been inviting Errek every night.  At some point, those invitations would become orders.  Errek hoped Entorani would leave his den before it reached that point.

For now, he sat on the wooden bench in the hunter barracks’ main chamber.  He fidgeted with loose splinters his worker-self would have been appalled by.  Five nights of inaction.  Of uselessness.  Boredom.  He wanted the hunt.

Maybe it was time to knock on Entorani’s door.  Technically, Errek’s instincts warned him not to.  However, they simultaneous told him to hunt and to wait for Entorani.  In other words, they were useless as usual.  Reconfirming Entorani’s expectations seemed like the best thing to do.

Errek hopped to his feet and sauntered out of the barracks.  His right leg was still weak, but it carried his weight without complaint.  At least when he walked or climbed.  The verdict was still out on whether he could run.  He was afraid to test it.

On his way up the spiral, he heard a muted, frustrated groan.  He quickened his stride.

Ru paced along the top landing.  His arms crossing and uncrossing.  He should have been below the walkway, smoothing out new cocooning dens with the other workers.  Errek stopped shy of the landing.  “Ru, why are you up here?”

Ru spun on his heels, a scowl on his face.  It faded as he stared at Errek.  The last time they had seen one another, Errek had still been just Rek.  Slowly, Ru looked down.  “I don’t know.  I don’t feel right.”

Errek placed the back of his hand against Ru’s forehead.  Warm.  Not hot.  The fever was only enough to make Ru shiver.  He was such a tiny thing.  Strange, since Ru had been the taller one when they were both workers.  “Hate to tell you this, but it’s going to get worse before it gets better.”

“I don’t… understand.”

Ru’s stick limbs swayed side-to-side like reeds in the wind.  A pathetic, weak thing.  It would be so easy to bend him in half.  Snap him.  Tear him apart.  Errek licked his teeth.  No.  Ru was not prey.  Attacking him would be like shooting a bucketed fish.  Pointless.  Unsporting.  <i>Unsatisfying</i>.

A sigh.  “Just don’t hiss at the knights.  They don’t like that.”

“Why would I...?”  Ru covered his head with his hands.

Errek rolled his eyes.  “Good luck, Ru.” He took to the wall.  Maybe, after Ru ascended, he would be worth talking to again.  Perhaps he would even make a decent hunting partner.  Assuming he would follow Errek’s orders this time.  Errek forced the sneer off his face.  That was a concern for the future.

He passed by the failed prince’s den eyeing the door.  He would come back after he was sure Entorani was not up top with the knights.  And after he figured out how to knock without being scolded.  Crawling over the edge, he found the knights at their usual posts.

Giving a quick bow, “Knight Demeko.  Knight Serana.  Have either of you seen Toran—Entorani?”

Demeko answered first.  “No, but I’ve been waiting for you.”

“You have?”

“The queen would like to see you.  Follow me.”

Demeko marched past Errek and disappeared into the pit.  Errek swallowed.  Was he in trouble for not hunting?  He had a good excuse for it.  He hoped the queen would listen to it before launching into yelling at him.  Errek forgot about that worry as he followed Demeko to the queen’s chambers.

Knights looked like they should be slow and ungainly with their massive frames.  But Demeko’s movements were mesmerizing.  He radiated power and finesse with each calculated, precise muscle flex.  As much as Errek enjoyed his newfound fleet, light poise as a hunter, he was envious of a knight’s strength.  Something to look forward to.  Pushing off the wall, he landed on the queen’s balcony railing.

“Don’t do that.”  Demeko eased himself down onto the balcony.  “The splinters and bruises will be the least of your worries if that collapses under you.”

Errek crouched to knock on the rail.  “It feels solid to me.”

A huff.  “It’s clear who raised you.”  A whine from across the pit caught his attention.  Ru.  Still struggling with his ascension crisis.  Demeko grimaced.

“I warned Ru that hissing at the knights was a bad idea.”

Demeko glanced back at Errek.  After a long pause, “I’m surprised you didn’t push him off the spiral.  You wouldn’t have been the first.”

“I thought about it.  Entorani would not approve.”

“A word of advice, hunter.  You speak too much and too freely to those above your rank.  It’s unbecoming.”

“Entorani said I’m going to be a knight.  So, shouldn’t I act like it?”

Demeko voiced the “n” of an assertive “No,” but stopped himself.  “Is that honestly what you want?  To become a good knight?”

“Yes!  Of course.”

Demeko stepped closer to speak in a hushed tone.  “A knight, more than any other rank, must stay true to his role.  Execute queen’s will without hesitation or question.  It is about knowing your place and staying in it.  There is no better way to prepare for that than to be a good hunter.  Merciless.  Ruthless.  Cunning.  Quiet.”

“But that’s not how knights are. I want to be like you.”

“I’m telling you to listen to your instincts.  It’s imperative for a knight.  It seems to me that family members specially raised by royals tend to struggle with that.”

Errek scrapped his tongue against his teeth.  Was that an honest opinion or an insult?  It was so hard to tell from Demeko’s tone.

“I’ll make you a deal.  If you dedicate yourself to your rank—to being a good hunter—I’ll oversee your training after you ascend.  Otherwise, I’ll make you Serana’s problem.”

Intriguing…  “Do you usually make that deal with rising knights?”

“No.”

What would Entorani have wanted?  Serana was a part of their family, but she was not currently in the queen’s good graces.  Besides, the idea of trusting Serana still bothered him.  Meanwhile, Demeko’s reputation was impeccable.  Having his mentorship would help Errek look like a well-behaved knight.  “I’ll be a good hunter then.”

“As you should.  Wait here.”  Demeko disappeared behind the doors to the queen’s chambers.

Errek hopped off the railing.  He turned around to stare at Entorani’s den.  Being a good hunter meant hunting.  It meant giving up on waiting.  Then again, training with Entorani would give him an edge.  One he might need if his leg betrayed him.  “What are you doing in there, Torani?  Just come out!”

The doors opened again as Demeko exited.  He took to the wall as Azehralia stepped onto her balcony.  Errek fell to one knee.  The words “my queen” had barely left his mouth before she pulled him onto his feet.

“Always so much fuss!”  She affectionately ruffled his hair.  He restrained himself from batting her hand away.  After a moment, it no longer bothered him.  It felt nice.  Even the dizziness blurring his vision was soothing.  “It’s good to see you again, Errek.”

“Demeko said you wanted to speak with me about something.”  She considered his statement.  Was that too many words?  Demeko had just warned him… about something.  Did it matter?  The warm haze made all those meaningless concerns drift away.

“I do, but I’m also interested in talking generally.  We’ve spent so little time together.  Normally, I get to know my workers as they do repairs for me.  But I don’t remember seeing much of you.  Did you ever do any work in my chambers?”

“If I did, I don’t remember it.”

“You would remember if you had.”  She swept her free arm in a wide shrug.  “That seems like an oversight.  I’ll speak with Les about it later.  For now… well, I think you know what I want to ask about.”

“Why I haven’t been hunting?”

“Indeed.”

“Queen Azehrali—”

She shushed him.  “There’s no need to be so formal when it’s just us!  Don’t worry about the title.  My name’s already a mouthful, don’t you think?”

He mentally sounded it out.  “I think Azehralia’s pretty, actually.”

“I see you’ve picked up Entorani’s rather forward charm.”  She sounded pleased, but something in her posture suggested otherwise.  A stiffness in the way she covered her mouth as she chuckled.  Whatever bothered her, it passed quickly.  “But go on.  Do you not want to hunt?”

“Of course I do!  I’m waiting for Entorani.  He wanted to teach me.”

“I see… Well, Errek, I hate to break the unfortunate news, but Entorani isn’t going to teach you.  With his new title, he is expected to act as a prince.  That means no hunting.”  Her hand pulled away, and clarity returned to Errek.  He shook his head.  She stepped around him to lean over the railing.  “We can find someone else to teach you though.  I’m thinking… Kordi might be a good option.  You two have a lot in common after all.  What do you think?”

He almost said it made no difference.  He had invested no time in getting to know his peers.  Kordi was as good as anyone.  That was the wrong answer.  “I think that would be wonderful, Azehralia.”

“Indeed…” The queen nodded distantly.  Her nails worried at a whorl in the railing’s wood.  She straightened, putting a hand on Errek’s shoulder.  That hazy calmness returned.  Pulses!  It must have been pulses.  But it felt so natural.  “I would love to chat with you all night, but I have a spoiled princess to appease.  Don’t worry though.  We’ll be seeing more of each other soon.  Until then.”

As she wandered into her chambers, her fingers slid off him one by one.  He had to stop himself from grabbing her hand.  Keeping it on him.  When the doors closed, his stomach turned.  He simultaneously wanted the feeling back and to never experience it again.  He had to get away from that contradiction.  Hunting.  Kordi.  He had new orders.

Clumsily, he ascended the wall.  Stumbled around the pit edge.  Passed Demeko.  Passed Serana.

She snagged his shirt sleeve.  “And where do you think you’re going?”

“Hunting.”

“This late?  <i>Alone</i>?  I don’t think so.”

“Queen Azehralia said—Hey!”  She dragged him around, so he was facing the pit.  “Get off!  I’m supposed to hunt!”

“You already wasted a week.  You can wait one more day for Kordi to teach you.  You don’t even know where she went.”

“But that’s—How did you—?  I thought the queen decided on Kordi while we were talking…”

“Clearly not.  Get used to that.  Now, back to the barracks with you.”  She shoved him forward.

“Hold on.” He spun back around.  Serana leaned back on her heels with her arms crossed.  Not the most inviting person, was she?  Still, if there was any low-risk favor he could use to test her reliability, this was it.  “Torani—<i>En</i>torani said you’re a part of <i>his</i> family.”  Her stony expression unnerved him.  Clearly, he had made a mistake in saying that.

“Baby Duck, I think that’s over.”

“What?  Duck??  Never mind, I just need to talk to him.  But Knight Demeko can’t catch me doing it.”

“You do <i>not</i> want to talk to <i>the prince</i>.  You think you do, but you don’t.  Trust me.”

Demeko’s voice cut in.  “Serana, do you need assistance?”  He remained reclined against the cage but repositioned his arms to push off.

“I’ve got this!  He’s finally willing to go out.  You know how they get when you tell them no.”  Serana turned back to Errek.  “Go back to the barracks.”

“Please.  He said I could trust you!”

She huffed.  “Fine.  You want to learn the hard way?  Be my guest.  I’ll keep Demeko occupied.  Now, get out of here.  And make it look like I put the fear into you!”

“The fear of what?”

A huff.  “It’s obvious who raised you.”  She whipped him around again, sending him stumbling forward.  “Move it!  You’ll go out tomorrow!”

Errek hunched his shoulders as he shuffled to the pit edge.  Climbing in, he saw Serana making her way to Demeko.  Good.  Hopefully anyway.

Stepping onto the landing for Torani’s den, he crouched at the door.  Raised his hand in a loose fist.  Why exactly had Serana told him not to talk to Entorani?  Perhaps, he should have asked that.  Too late now.  Tentatively, he knocked.

No response.  He looked up.  Swallowed.  Knocked harder.  This time, something shuffled around inside.  Errek waited nervously, his eyes darting from the den to the pit edge.  He was about to knock again when the door cracked open.

“Evening?”

Errek wrenched the door wider.  “Entorani, evening.”

“Errek?  Why are you…?”  He wore an empty smile.  His eyes were wide and his breathing shallow.  He shook his head.  “Shouldn’t you be hunting?”

“I was waiting for you to take me.”

“That’s… not happening anymore.”

“I know.  The queen told me.”

“Y-you spoke with Zehra?”

“Don’t worry.  I’m not in trouble.  She wants me to go hunting with Kordi tomorrow.”

Entorani eased back.  “Good.  That’s good… You shouldn’t be here though.”

“I needed to talk to you.”

“Well, you’ve done that, so—”

The door began to close.  Errek caught it with his hand.  “I need you to explain how this works: I feel off whenever the queen gets too close to me.  I don’t feel like myself.  I don’t like it.  It’s like—”

“It’s her right.  Get used to it.  Accept it.  It won’t bother you once you do.”

“You… don’t sound like yourself.”

“I’m fine.  I need you to behave.  I can’t watch over you like I wanted to, so be good.”

“The queen did the same thing to you too, huh?  Only worse, because—”

“Stop.” He ran a hand through his hair.  “Stop thinking about it.  Just be a good hunter.  Behave.”

“Serana said your family doesn’t exist anymore.”

Entorani tried to swallow the whimper that shuddered through him.  A silent laugh covered it.  “Of course it does.  The whole nest is my family.”

“That wasn’t what you said bef—”

“Forget what I said the other night.  That was a bad game.  I’m not playing anymore.  I’m going to be a good prince and care for the entire family.”

“So… You and I… I don’t matter to you anymore?”

“That’s not true, Errek!  You’re still my—!  My…  Stop it!  You’re not supposed to be here.  Go be a good hunter!  That’s an order!”  He flashed his teeth, but his expression showed pain not anger.

“I… understand.”

“And stay away from Serana.  She’s bad for you.”  He slammed the door closed.

Rising to his feet, Errek carefully descended the wall.   He understood.  Yes.  He now knew the consequences of getting caught misbehaving.  So, he would not get caught.

As for Entorani’s new orders…  He was not himself.   Hopefully, whatever the queen had done to him was not permanent.  Entorani would want his family—Errek—again once he got better.  It would just take time.

As for Serana… Errek glanced to the pit edge.  She had pulled through for him.  Maybe she was okay.  Even if she had given up on Entorani.  Errek would find a way to convince her that she was wrong.  He had to.  For now, she was all he had.
