Early the next night, Errek left his slot in the honeycomb of hunter dens.  His plan was to be ready to go before Kordi was up.  He was unsure if she knew she was expected to train him.  He had to catch her before she went out.  Assuming she came back the prior morning.

As he stretched his arms, he scanned the other den slots.  No sign of her.  She must have stayed out.  <i>Great</i>.  He wandered dejectedly into the main chamber.  The idea of wasting another night left a bad taste in his mouth.  Maybe it was time to accept Worith and Kalen’s invitation.

“Hey, Errek!”  Kordi had one foot up on the bench.  Her torso was flat over her leg as she reached past her toes.

“Evening, Rising Prince Kordi.”

She did a double take.  “My goodness!  You sound just like Prince Entorani!”

“Yeah… I keep hearing I take after him.”

“You sound unhappy about that.  There are worse family members to be like, trust me.  Anyway, it’s about time you got up!  I’m ready to leave.”

“It’s barely sunset.”

She tsked.  “Typical lazy hunter.”  Straightening, she walked a quick circle around him.  “Well, we better get moving.  We’re already late, and you’re going to slow me down.”

When she came to a stop, Errek rotated his right leg away from her.  “Why do you say that?”

She shoved him back with a playful grin.  “Because you don’t know what you’re doing.  You’ll be all questions and fumbling.  New hunters are always like that.”

“Aren’t you the youngest hunter after me?”

A bought of cackling escaped her.  “Yes!  That’s why I know what I’m talking about!  You ready?”

“As I’ll ever be.”

“Race ya!”  She was already gone.

By the time Errek exited the barracks, she was halfway up the spiral.  This was the wrong time to push his leg.  Trotting, he scanned the pit for ideas.  Kordi was almost at the landing.  Climbing from there would still leave her with sprint about the pit edge to reach the knights.

Errek skidded to a halt.  He could go straight to the cage from the walkway section below Entorani’s den.  He bet he climbed faster than Kordi could run.  Grinning, he scurried up the wall.  His hand had just reached the top when he heard Kordi.

“Good evening, Knight Demeko.  Have you seen Errek?  We were supposed to go hunting tonight, but it looks like I’ve lost him.  I guess I’ll have to go out alone.”

Scowling, Errek crept over the edge.  Demeko cleared his throat, and Kordi turned around.

“Oh, there you are!  I’ve been waiting <i>ages</i> for you!  I was worried the grubs ate you.”

Rising to his feet with a glare, “Very funny.”

Kordi looked back at Demeko.  “Oh dear.  That one’s got less of a sense of humor than Ander had.”

Demeko deigned to respond, “Hunters are not known for their humor nor good temper, rising prince.”

“I’ve heard the same of knights… Oh well, I supposed I’ll have to disappoint on both accounts for both ranks.”  She gave an unamused Demeko a full-toothed grin before dismissing herself.  If <i>this</i> was the standard for good behavior, then Errek would easily earn Demeko’s mentorship.

Kordi grabbed Errek by the arm and dragged him into the tunnel.  He got a face full of some citrusy scent from her overalls.  A stark contrast to the faint moldering smell that pervaded everyone else.  Errek shrugged his arm free.  “Why did Demeko let you—”

“This way!”  Kordi pranced into the side chamber.  Diving into the hat pile, she examined one after another.  She tossed the rejects with abandon.

Errek held back by the entrance.  “Why did Demeko put up with that?”

“Because I’ll outrank him soon.  Plus, he doesn’t want to do anything to upset Ilen.”  Popping a fedora on her head, she nodded.  She tucked it under her arm and kept digging through the pile.

“So… you can pretty much do whatever you want?”

“Hardly.  Ilen laughs when I’m cheery and playful, so I get to be like this instead of”—her voice deepened and slowed—"perpetually moody and dark…”

Errek smirked despite himself.

“Otherwise, I’m a good hunter.  No one complains about <i>that</i>.  How about you?  What special exceptions do you get from your royal?”

“None.”  He was pleased with how easily that lie came out.

“Really?”  She stood up, straightening a newsboy cap on her head as she walked towards him.  “I’m surprised.  I’m sure you’ve heard stories about what Prince Entorani did when he was a hunter.”

“No?”

She slapped the fedora onto Errek’s head, blocking his vision.

“Hey!”

“Apparently, he was an absolute terror.  Drove the knights crazy.  One time, he stole the cage keys from Demeko.  Tossed them into the pit.  Ilen made Demeko fight the grubs to get them back.”

“That doesn’t really sound like Entorani…”  Taking the hat off, he stared at it.  “What do I need this for?”

“Camouflage.  No proper gentleman goes out without his hat.  Keep up.”

She was already out of sight.  Errek huffed and put the hat back on.  He expected it to bother him.  However, once it was properly seated, it felt natural.  Perhaps his food-self had worn one.

In the main tunnel, there was no trace of Kordi.  Errek quick walked outside.  He spared a moment to revel in the cool night air under the vast dark sky.  Easing out a contented breath, he returned to business.

Scanning the area failed to reveal Kordi.  “She didn’t…”  A hint of a smell.  He sniffed.  Citrus.  Looked up.  Kordi was crouched on a rock above the nest entrance.

She scoffed.  “Took you long enough.  I could have killed you… six times by now.”

“Yeah, yeah.  For the moment, you’re the superior hunter.  I’m well—”

Kordi launched off her perch, tackling Errek to the ground.  She pinned his throat.  “And that would be seven.  Pay more attention.”

Though a strangled breath, “Okay, I get it.”

Releasing him, she hopped to her feet.  She held out a hand to help him up.  He eyed it suspiciously.  No.  Getting up on his own, he dusted off his pants.

“I was going to help you up for real.  Killing you eight times would be boring.”

“M-hm.”

“So.  You’ve already been out once with Prince Entorani.  You did highway hunting with him, right?”

“Yeah.”

“We’re town hunting.  Which road did you get?”

“I don’t know.  The south one?”

“How many creeks did you pass?”

“One?”

“Perfect, we’re going much further south.  Bit of a long run though.  See you there.”  She took off.  

Great.  Errek trotted through the grass after her.

A hundred feet in, she darted back, falling into step beside him.  “I don’t think you understood me.  You need to <i>run</i>.”

“I’ve never run before.”

“Uh, move your legs faster.  It’s not that hard.”  She pushed him forward.

His knee twinged as he stumbled off balance.  Just as he steadied himself, Kordi shoved him again, harder.  If he barked at her to back off, she would be suspicious.  But trying to run might prove his weakness.  She raised her hand again.  Better to try and hope for the best.

He bolted ahead.  Stayed upright.  No pain.  His knee remained strong as long as he ran straight.

“There you go!”  Kordi caught up with him.  “Is that the best you can do though?”

“I don’t think so.”  He smirked.  “Race ya.”

A squeal of a laughter behind him.  The sound of her footsteps faded.  He glanced back to gauge the lead he had on her.  His long legs had served him well.  And, damn, it felt good.  The rushing air.  Grass scraping by his legs.  The freedom of being out there… Errek decided he liked running.

The problem was he had no idea where he was going.  He eased his pace to let Kordi catch up.  When she was few steps behind him, he jeered,  “Looks like I’m faster than—”

Something hit his back.  Falling to the ground.  Kordi’s weight above him.  He rolled on top before she could pin him again.  They kept rolling.  Kordi broke into disjointed giggling.  He cracked up in turn.  The two hunters became a wheel of dizzy, cackling hyenas scaring the crickets into silence.

Until a rock scraped across Errek’s arm.  He flinched.  Kordi took advantage of the moment, triumphantly claiming the top position.  Panting,  “That’s eight times.”

“But I’m faster than—”

She shoved her hands over his mouth.  “Eight.  And you lost your hat.”

He shoved her off.  “So did you.”

She was already on her feet.  As he rubbed his arm, Kordi’s hand appeared in his face, ready to pull him up.  Her fingers wiggled invitingly.

He sighed.  “Fine.”  She yanked him to his feet, nearly wrenching his arm out of his socket.  Following her back to their fallen hats, he rotated his shoulder.  “You’re crazy, you know that?”

“You’re jealous.”  She slung the fedora at him.

A fumble and a catch.  “Not in the slightest.”  Popping the hat back onto his head, he realized the grin on his face hurt.  When was the last time he had smiled like this?  Never?  Kordi’s easy manner was contagious.

And she was on the run again.  Errek took off after her.  They passed over the first creek.  Darted through tree patches.  Then over a major road.  Maybe the same one he had hunted on with Torani.

They had just left another pocket of dense trees when Kordi skidded to a halt.  Errek looked around the empty grassland in confusion.  “This is the town?”

“Does this look like a town?  No.  But!  This is a good spot to point out the no-go area.”  She pointed west.  A hazy scattering of white pinpricks gleamed in the mountains’ dark shadow.  Dull stars on earth.

“What’s that light from?”

“The city.  Great place!  Lots of food.  Easy hunting.  Also, Thera never came back, and Ander lost an arm.  And a couple others I never met might have died there too.  We don’t go there anymore.  Even if you get out alive, the queen will kill you later.”

“N-noted.  What exactly happened to them?”

“The food.”

“Meaning?”

She shrugged.  “We may be built to kill them, but that doesn’t mean they roll over and let us do it.  Don’t worry about it though.  I’ll teach you to handle yourself.  Come on.”  Kordi turned on a dime, sprinting eastwards.

Errek spared the lights one last glance.  Elizabeth’s lying promise of cooperation drifted into his thoughts.  Then the car graveyards.  That the food reclaimed those vehicles.  And now, he had a concrete example of the danger the food posed.  And yet, every family member had once been the food.  Clearly, their relationship to each other was more complex than predator and prey.  Though what exactly it was, or could be, eluded him.

A problem to chew through later.  He took off after Kordi.
