The endless grassland was finally interrupted by distant buildings.  Kordi skipped ahead.  Errek sped up to catch her.  He tripped over something instead.  Crashed to the ground.  Growling, he returned to his feet and looked back.  Confusion beat frustration.

What exactly was that long wood and metal thing cutting through the grass like a road?  Toeing a crossbar, he willed the word to come to him.  <i>Train tracks</i>.  Okay.  So, what was a train?  He crossed his arms.

“Errek!”

Apparently, trains were a mystery for later.  He hurried to join Kordi.

She stopped a respectable distance from the town.  Pacing the earth, she found an acceptable spot and began digging.  Errek walked past her.  He kept going until his hands touched the nearest building’s brick wall.  He traced a path though the mortar, up, right, around.  The dim glow along the streets called to him.  Houses, and shops, and—

“Come on!  We have a den to dig.”

His shoulders drooped.  Turning around, he looked at the sky.  They had hours until dawn.  “Can’t we look around town first?”
	
“There’s not enough time to hunt.”

“Not to hunt, just to look.”

She clapped soil off her hands as she considered it.  “I suppose we have time to show you around.  There’ll be no excuses if you fall behind tomorrow though!”  She appeared at his side.  “Lesson one.”  She bolted up the building.  “Keep out of sight.  I like rooves because even if the food sees us, they think we’re kids messing around.  They can’t see our teeth from down there.  See?”  She gave him a beaming smile.

Errek stared at the wall.  “How do I climb this?”

“You haven’t even tried!  Just do it.  Also, watch for the gutters when you get up here.”  She pressed down on one, bending it.  “They don’t always take your weight.  And they make a ton of noise if they fall off.”

“Noted…”  He ran his palm across the bricks.  No inviting handholds.  Well, Kordi had done it somehow.  He sank his fingers into the mortal joints, gripping as hard as he could.  Pulling himself up, he realized there would be no footholds either.  He would have to rely entirely on upper body strength.  Slowly but surely, he ascended, slipping only once.  And technically a second time as he struggled over the gutters.

Kordi crossed her arms.  “Well, there went our entire night.  You’re gonna want to work on that.”

“Give me credit for making it on my first try.”

“Sure.  Good job!  If the food was after you, they would have yanked out off the wall, but you did eventually get here!”

“Thanks…”

“Welcome!  Now, hurry up.  I have much to show you.”

Kordi led Errek along the best roof-routes.  Crossing over the downtown from one neighborhood to the next.  Pointing out the wealthier and poorer areas.  Explaining how to tell them apart.  How the food’s clothing revealed a myriad of information.  Social status.  Health.  Role and value for society.

Errek half-listened.  His focus was on the buildings and contraptions around them.  The streetlamps shed a soft glow, illuminating asphalt roads.  Vehicles sat clustered into ordered groups as if they were Torani’s car graveyard.  The large fountain in town center gurgled loudly against the empty, early morning streets.  Lights in the fountain’s base cast shimmering waves of color onto nearby buildings.

But these curiosities were nothing compared to the shops and their tantalizing displays.  A toy store full of dolls, figures, and model cars and planes.  A clothing store, whose mannequins Errek first thought were living beings.  Though shut down for the night, the bakery still radiated a subtle scent of toasted wheat and rye.

Above each shop, there was a series of decorative glyphs.  Signs.  Store names.  Errek’s knowledge ended there.  Although words for every novelty came to him, letters remained indecipherable.  Perhaps reading would require another ascension.  He huffed.

“Are you paying attention to what I’m saying?”

“No.”

Kordi shoved Errek.  “At least you’re honest.  You won’t make much of a hunting partner if you don’t stay focused though.”

“Does it really matter what a hat says about how rich someone is?”

“I thought you weren’t listening.  And, yes, it does!  The majority of hunting is picking the right body.”

“On the highway, you just take whoever comes out of the car.”

“This isn’t a highway!  It’s a community!  They know one another.  They notice when someone goes missing.  It’s their version of the family.  We take the least important ones.”

“So… we hunt the food’s grubs?”

“That’s… one way to look at it.”

“Ick.”  He sat on the roof’s edge and scanned town center again.  Oh, how he wanted to walk through that fountain.

She crouched next to him.  “They still taste good.”

“Did you know that we used to be food?”

“Yeah.  I was at the last initiation.  I don’t remember much of it, but I saw the ceremony up close.”

“Do you think that means that, in some weird way, the food are the lowest family members?  Below the grubs.”

“You’re not suddenly feeling <i>bad</i> about eating them, are you?”

“No.  Put one in front of me, and I’d rip him to pieces.  I’m starving.”

“Then why are you asking?”

“I don’t know… I just feel like I don’t quite understand something about them.  About us.”

She knocked on his skull.  “Hunters aren’t thinkers.  We’re hunters!  Forget about it.”

He shooed her hands away.  “Yeah, yeah!  Entorani says I ask too many questions too.  Most of the time, he knows the answer but doesn’t want to give it to me.  I have to push him for it.  Even then, I don’t think he tells me everything.”

“That’s royals…” Her tone was distant.  “What’s it like between you two?”

“I don’t know what you’re asking.”

“I mean, it’s obvious how things are for me and Ilen.  I’m going to be her prince.  We’re going to start the next nest together.  She loves me.  I love her.  It’s simple.  It makes sense.  I don’t understand what Prince Entorani wants from you though.”

“He wants me to reach knight.”

She laughed.  “I know <i>that</i>.  They always want the next ascension.  But once you’re a knight, then what?”

He swallowed.  It was impossible to explain Entorani’s family.  He barely understood it.  He lied truthfully, “I don’t know.”

“Come on, Errek.  Royals never pay attention to lower family members unless they want something.”

“If he wants something, then he hasn’t told me what it is.”  He pulled his jacket tighter around him.  “But I don’t think he’s after anything specific from me.”

“He <i>definitely</i> wants something.  There’s no way a higher royal would—”

“Okay!  Then maybe once you’re a prince, <i>you</i> can tell me what he wants!”

Kordi clamped her mouth shut.

Errek looked down.  “Sorry.”

“I don’t think anyone has ever raised their voice at me before.  I don’t like it.”

“<i>I’m sorry</i>.  I just—Entorani got in so much trouble for taking me out.  He’s scared that I’ll fail to reach knight.  That’s why he did it.  It’s probably why he’s doing everything.  He doesn’t want me to go through what he went through.  Whatever that was.  Not like he’ll tell me… I guess what he wants is to make up for failing to become a prince.”

“He doesn’t hate me, does he?”

“What?”  A bewildered laugh.  “Why would he?”

“He was supposed to be Ilen’s prince.  I’m taking his place.”

“No.”  He shook his head.  “He’s never said anything bad about you.  If he hates anyone, it’s himself…”  He realized that as he said it.  And it explained a lot of Entorani’s behavior.  The fear.  That restless anxiety stemming Entorani’s inability to do what he was raised to do.  His inability to start the next nest.  So, when he called Errek and Serana <i>his family</i>, did that mean—

“I hope you’re right.  That Prince Entorani wants you to be a knight, because it’s good for you.  Good for the family.  And that there’s nothing else to it.  I’ve always liked him.  I would be happy being like him.”

“I like the way you are now.”

She pushed him.  “You’re weird, Errek.”  A sigh.  “It’s getting close to dawn.  We still need to dig a den.”  Hopping to her feet, “Keep u—!”

Errek had already dashed off ahead of her.
