Despite his growling stomach, Errek slept well that day.  Curled around Kordi in their cramped, makeshift den, he vaguely remembered the grub pile.  If the family had any sense, they would always sleep like this.  All ranks close together.  Comforted by knowing other sets of teeth were at the ready if anything was stupid enough to threaten them.

Kordi squirmed in his arms.  “Hey, you awake?”

“No.”

“Uh-huh.  Well, the sun is setting.  Can’t you feel it?”

“I guess.”

“Then come on!  Let’s hunt.”

“In a few minutes…”  He snuggled further into her shoulder.

She corkscrewed around.  “Let go and start digging, or I’ll bite you.”

“Fine!  Fine.”  He released her.  Weakly, he pawed around, seeking loose soil.  Meanwhile, Kordi zipped upwards like a mole worming out of its tunnel.  He made to follow her.  Clay plummeted down on him.

“Don’t use my exit.  Dig your own way out!”

Errek considered her order.  Instead, he shot out of the existing tunnel.  She huffed.  He gave her a wide grin, feeling bits of dirt wedged between his teeth.

“You are unbelievably lazy.”  She tossed a dirt clump at his face.  Direct hit.

Looking back to grab a clod to throw at her, he winced.  The world behind him was blindingly bright.  With his eyes screwed shut, he fumbled until he found a dirt chunk.  A heavy one.  He was mid-throw when it dawned on him why it was so heavy.  The rock was already hurtling towards Kordi’s eye.

His breath caught in his throat.  Words of warning jumbled in his mind.  She caught it.  Her cocky grin flickered to surprise.  She glanced at the stone.  Then suspiciously at Errek.

He anxiously rubbed his neck.  “A-about time I nearly killed you, right?  I have to even the score.”

Kordi threw the rock straight up and caught it without breaking eye contact.

“R-right?”

She snorted, tossing the rock into his lap.  “You know, a real hunter would mean that.”

“I am a real hunter.”

“<i>Sure</i>.”

“<i>I am!</i>”

A tsk as she tucked her ears under her newsboy cap and pushed her sleeves down to cover her hands.  Under the cap’s shade, the bottom half of her face glowed pale orange.  Reflecting fading sunlight.  The color recast her features as eerie but none-the-less appealing.  Sure, her exaggerated smiles were absurdly cartoony, but her resting face was rather pretty.

Errek put that thought aside.  Seeing Elizabeth as pretty had not served him well.  No reason to go through it again with Kordi.

“Are you going to help me or not?”  She had begun refilling the den while Errek gawked at her.

He let his hands do the talking, pushing the loose dirt back in place.  His attention was still elsewhere though.  Looking into plains, into the brilliant setting sun.  The grass sea glowed an unearthly golden.  Its shadows shivered plum purple instead of black.  It was all too vivid.

He examined his exposed hands in the dying light.  They seemed fine.   “So… the sun is still out.”

“Really?  I hadn’t noticed.”

A sigh.  “Entorani said the sun would burn.  The colors make me a little dizzy, but it doesn’t hurt.”

“Yeah, you should stop letting it touch your skin.  You’ll feel it in a few minutes.”

Errek shrugged off her advice and shoved the last handful of dirt into place.  Standing, he stomped the area flat.  Once he had done the best he could, he held out a hand to help Kordi up.  She almost pulled him over.  “Why are you so heavy?!”

A laugh burbled through her as he strained to stay upright.  She let go of his hand and hopped to her feet.  “Excuse my knight’s muscles.  I’m getting close to ascension.”   She shoved him.  “Can’t you tell?”

“You look like a hunter to me.”

“Well, <I>I</I> can feel it, and <i>that’s</i> what matters.  Now, come on!”  She shot off towards the town.  Sure, she beat him onto the roof, but he was only a few seconds behind her.  “So, do you know how to give clickpulses?”

“Yeah.”

“And electrical ones?”

“Yep.”

“Good.  This should be child’s play then.  I’ll pick the first target.  Once they’re alone, I’ll give a stop clickpulse, rush in, restrain them, and pulse them out of it.  You’ll just watch.  After that, I’ll help you pick a target and let you do the rest of the work yourself.  Sound like a plan?”

“I’d rather help with the first one too.”

“I like your enthusiasm, but you’ll get in my way.  I don’t care if you mess up the second hunt.  Mess up the first one though…”  She licked her teeth.  “Stay out of the way.  Follow me.”

The two hunters roof jumped to town center.  Kordi’s aura changed as she settled in to hunt.  No more excited energy or sarcasm.  Just silent focus.  Errek watched her intently, trying to predict who would become her pick.  A futile effort.  Her focus changed from person to person at a moment’s notice.  She followed several out of the downtown area, only to give up and return to the starting point.

Her decisions were incomprehensible.  Men and women of all ages and social classes came onto her radar.  There was no discernable pattern.  Errek tried to ask questions, but she shushed him.  When shushing degenerated into growling, he stopped asking.  Some teacher she was.

He rubbed the back of his hands incessantly.  The fiery itch growing across his reddening skin irritated him further.  Waking up before total sunset had been a stupid, pointless endeavor.  At least he knew never to do it again.

Finally, Kordi perked up, a grin spreading across her face.  This was the one.  A young woman dressed to impress.  Likely in her best hat.  Either upper-middle class or trying to appear as if that was her station.  Something about her manner suggested the latter to Errek.  They followed her through town.  To the furthest neighborhoods.  To the edge where civilization’s outskirts gave way to grassland.  

As the target walked beyond the streetlight’s safety, Kordi slithered down from the roof like a reptile.  Her eyes never left the target.  Her single-minded focus was impressive.  As Errek trailed behind, he felt like he should have been mimicking Kordi’s determination.

His heart was not in it though.  Knowing that he would not make the grab kept him detached from the process.  He had felt the same way while hunting with Entorani.  Maybe when he was tracking his own victim, he would feel it.  The rush his instincts told him to expect.

Oblivious to her stalkers, the woman ventured further into the plains towards a lone scrubby tree.  Kordi held back to let Errek catch up.  She put a hand on his shoulder.  “Stay.  Watch.”  She crept off on all fours, making a wide circle around the woman.  It looked like her plan was to attack from the side.

Errek hunkered down.  Bored.  At least this looked like an honest hunt.  Stalking.  Positioning.  Soon leaping and grabbing.  Gnashing of teeth.  That felt more natural than highway ambushing.

Movement in his peripheral vision.  Errek looked to the town.  A young man stepped out of the lamplight and into the plains.  He was headed in the same direction that the woman had gone.  The couple must have planned to meet one another out there.

Errek fidgeted with the skin flaking off his hands.  There was no way to warn Kordi.  The man was entering the scene from behind her, so she would never see him.  If she took down the woman, the man would start yelling.  He could alert the whole town.  Errek swore under his breath.

Then a smile twitched onto his face.  The only option was to take the man down too.  Afterall, Kordi had said their second target would be Errek’s bounty.

Keeping low, Errek set course for his target.  Ran a long arc towards town to get behind him.  Skidded to a quiet stop just shy of striking distance.  He straightened, approaching on tip toe.  If Kordi waited just a little—

<I>STOP</I>.  A flashing movement launched onto the woman.  Even though he knew it was coming, the action shocked Errek as much as the man.  And the man recovered first, rushing forward and yelling, “What!?”  So much for stealth!

Errek bolted in, giving his own clickpulse.  <I>FREEZE</I>.  Pouncing.  The man stumbled to the side, covering his ears.  Errek flew past him, tumbling to the ground.

Stomping by Errek’s head.  He rolled away from the heel seeking his skull.  Grabbed the leg.  Pulled the man down.  Kicking.  Flailing.  Climbing onto the man’s stomach.  Pinning down his shoulders.  Teeth bit into Errek’s arm.  A wisp of a dark memory.  Hissing, Errek slammed the man’s head to the ground.  Exposed the throat.  Moved in for the kill.

<I>STOP</I>.

Errek cringed.  It felt like that clickpulse had been directed at him.  He looked at Kordi, growling.  She calmly sat crossed-legged with the woman curled up in her lap.  Surely, the clickpulse had been misdirected.  It was meant for the man under him.  Errek leaned in to bite.

<I>STOP</I>.  <I>STOP</I>.  <I>STOP</I>.

“Why!?”

“You’re joking, right?”

The man went back to trashing about.  Errek put all his weight into keeping him still.

“Electrical pulses, Errek.”

Right.  He grabbed the man’s neck and forced calmness to overwhelm him.  The man’s fight weakened, but he refused surrender.  He tossed his head back and forth, trying to reject Errek’s control.  

A huff from Kordi.  “Pulse harder.  You’re not gonna break him.”

Errek blinked.  How exactly did one pulse harder?  It felt like he could put more electricity into it.  He tried that.  The man straightened, his posture tightening and flexing.  Easing into limpness.  Even his panting fell silent.  Errek checked the man’s pulse.  Yes.  Still alive.

Steps as Kordi approached with the woman in tow.  She dropped to Errek’s level.  The woman went down right after, wrapping back around Kordi.  “I’m not impressed, but you could have done worse.”

“’Not impressed?’  He was gonna screw up your entire hunt.  I took care of it.  You’re welcome!”

With acid, “Actually, I was hoping someone else would show up to meet her.  It was a nice test for you, wasn’t it?”  Shaking her head, “Points for quick thinking anyway.  Could have been a quieter hunt…”  She squinted at the town.  “Doesn’t look like anyone’s coming though.”

“So.  I did okay.”

“Not so fast.  What were you thinking trying to bite him!?”

“I’m thinking that I haven’t eaten in a week.”

“First: these are for initiation.  Not food.  Second: we don’t eat on the hunt.  You know that already.”

Did he know that?  Okay, yes, there was a voice warning him not to.  Fine.  “Oh.”

“You‘re an incredibly stupid hunter.”

“I… think I get that from Entorani.”

She snorted.  “Don’t blame him for your empty head!  Whatever.  Get your guy up.  We’ve got plenty of time to get back to the nest if we go now.”  As she stood, the woman came up with her.

Nodding, Errek tried to follow suit.  Unlike the conveniently obliging woman, the man remained limply on the ground.  Errek frowned.  Pulling on the man’s arms to get him up was like fighting with jello.  Huffing, Errek knelt to heave the man over his shoulder.

“Uh… So.”  Kordi clicked her tongue.  “What emotion are you using?”

“Calm?”

“Try pleasure.”

Brow furrowing, he stared at his target.  <i>Pleasure</i>.  He knew the definition of that word.  He understood what that emotion was in a scientific sense.  “I don’t remember what that feels like.”

She rolled her eyes.  “Like a reward pulse, stupid.”

Again, he had an idea what that should have been.  Had the queen given him one?  No.  What he felt from her touch was more like community.  Duty.  Obedience.  Subservience.  “Never got one.”

“You’re kidding.”

“No.”

“But royals hand them out like candy.  It’s what they do.”

“Not Entorani.  He doesn’t do that.”

“Yes, he does!  I’ve been pulsed by him.”

“Then he’s never done it to me!”  Which brought up the uncomfortable question: why not?

“Okay, well, I can give you a taste.”  She snagged Errek’s wrist.

A shiver shot through Errek.  He lurched forward.  Half a moan escaped him before the warmth suddenly stopped.  He weakly scraped the air, trying to catch her arm.  To bring the feeling back.

She stepped away.  “There you go.  No more excuses.”

Errek blinked back to reality.  Shook his head.  Kordi’s foggy, impatient words, “Any time now,” registered on a delay.  Groaning, he looked down at the body below him.  He changed his pulse match what Kordi had made him feel.  The man whimpered.

When Errek pulled away to stand up, the man grabbed for him, trying to keep the pulses going.  Errek cringed, recognizing he had done the same thing to Kordi.  When they were both on their feet, the man leaned heavily on Errek.  Clearing his throat, “How long do I have to keep this up?”

“Not very.  It’ll scramble their egg quick.  After that, you’ll only need to give him a boost if he gets too agitated.”

“Great…”

Kordi walked past Errek with her arm around the woman’s waist.  “Let’s get out of here before someone comes looking for these two.”

Errek moved his arm down to the man’s waist to mimic Kordi’s pose.  It was easy enough to drag the victim along.  Resisting the urge to take a bite out of him was maddening though.  Fresh live food.  Warm.  Its heart still beating.  It should have been his kill.  Errek suppressed a growl.  “This doesn’t make sense to me.”

Kordi looked back.  “Hm?”

“Bringing back everything we catch.  It seems like most of the time we spend ‘hunting’ is actually spent traveling.  If we ate out here, we could bring back more for the rest of the family.”

“That would defy the queen’s right to first choice.”

“She could still have the first choice of what made it to the nest.”

“Look, the hierarchy doesn’t work like that.”

“But it’s wasteful.”

“And questioning it is treason, Errek.  I shouldn’t have to tell you that!”

He swallowed the rest of his argument.  His complaining made him sound like a bad hunter.  And Kordi might say something to Demeko about it.  He had to turn the conversation around.  To get Kordi back on his side.  “I’m sorry.  You’re right.”

“It’s fine.  I know hunters and their grumpy stomachs.  I’ve got one.”

“It’s not just that, Kordi.”  He fell into step beside her.  “You must know what it’s like.  Entorani is always pushing me to go against my instincts.  It’s the same with you and Princess Vaeilentha, isn’t it?”

“What’s your point?”

“You get how hard it is to balance that, right?  Listening to your instincts is impossible when all you ever do is suppress them.  Or is that just me?”

“No…  Not just you.”  She laughed anxiously.  “To be honest, I was already on edge about the ‘eating outside the nest’ thing.”

“Why?”

“Zehra may not like what Prince Entorani did with you, but Ilen was ecstatic about it.  After initiation, Ilen wants me to start eating out here, so I’ll ascend faster.  But that’s wrong.  It’s instinct!  And Zehra made it clear she wants us to follow instinct on this one.

“So, how do I decide who to listen to?  Ilen is my princess.  The mother of my future family.  Zehra isn’t my queen, but it’s her nest I’m in now.  I only exist because of her.  There isn’t a right answer here!”

“Doesn’t that make it your choice who you listen to?”

“We don’t get ‘choices.’  We get orders.”

“But when they contradict—”

“It means I have to figure out who I’m actually supposed to listen to.  And I think… I think I know…”  She left it there.

“Kordi, I—”

“Can we talk about something else?  Literally, anything else?”

“Yeah.  No problem.”
