Errek and Kordi arrived at the nest near sunrise.  She was annoyed the trip took so long, but nothing could be done about it.  He needed to memorize the landmarks along their path.  That took time.

At least that was what he told her.  In truth, his bad leg ached if he ran while carrying his victim.  Slowing down to “look for landmarks” was the only way he could make the journey.

Frustrated or not, at least Kordi seemed to be in better spirits.  She joked and jeered as if the conversation about instinct and orders had never happened.  Errek let her win the race to entrance tunnel.  It allowed him a final look at the sky.  At the outside world’s boundless glory.  The infinite.  How he loathed their suffocating, cramped nest.

“Errek, what are you doing?”  She peeked out of the tunnel.  Did she feel the same way about returning home?

He doubted it.  “Nothing.”  Dejectedly, he trailed in after her.

Serana’s approving whistle welcomed them into the main chamber.  “You each have one?  I wasn’t expecting that.  Your first official hunt was successful then!”  She thumped Errek on the back.

Kordi cut in before Errek could answer.  “Of course it was!  I was there.”

“Our rising prince is always modest.”  Serana ruffled Kordi’s hair.  The hunter laughed and danced away before darting off to meet Demeko.

Errek hesitated.  Whispered, “Thank you.  For the other night.  You were right though.  No point in talking to Entorani right now.  He’s not himself.”

A conflicted smile twitched onto Serana’s face.  “Get going.  Like a good hunter.”

He nodded and moved on.

Meanwhile, Demeko stuffed Kordi’s offering into the cage.  Closing the door, he turned to her and touched her neck.  Her eyes fluttered shut.  When he released her, she stumbled back with a giggle.  Her expression distant and dreamy.

Errek swallowed as Demeko took the second victim.  Soon, it would be Errek’s turn to get pulsed.  He fidgeted with his belt loops.  The emotional basis for these so-called “reward” pulses matched what they used to sedate the food.  Had anyone considered what that meant?  That royals placated the family with the same feelings hunters weaponized.  There was no difference between those acts!

The last cage lock snapped shut.  Demeko turned to Errek with his hand raised.  Errek ducked and stepped back.  Demeko’s brow furrowed.

Kordi appeared at Errek’s side.  “He’s a shy one.”  She shoved him.  “Go on.  Demeko only bites if you deserve it.”

Errek’s words spilled out: “I don’t feel right about this.”

Demeko retracted his hand.   “Do you believe you haven’t earned it?”

“No.  It’s not that.”  Come on.  Come up with a good excuse.  There had to be one!  “A good hunter is always aware.  Watching.  Focused.  Reward pulses interfere with that.”

“On the hunt, you’re correct.  Awareness is everything.  However, you’re with the family now.  It’s all right to be distracted for a moment.”  Demeko raised his hand again.  Errek leaned away.  “It makes no difference whether you accept it or not.  But it would be atypical of a hunter to refuse.”

In other words, a good hunter would take it.  Did Errek really need Demeko’s mentorship?  Yeah… He did.  He sighed.  Stepped forward.

“I thought so.”  Demeko placed his hand on Errek’s neck.

This rush was nothing like Kordi’s puny zap.  The word “opium” came and left Errek’s mind.  Moaning, he grabbed Demeko’s wrist.  Pushed his hand harder against his skin.  Losing contact.  Losing balance.  Crumpling to the floor.

His vision glossed back into focus at a crackling of Kordi’s laughter.  “You can see why he’s shy.  He’s a light weight!”  Being picked up.  Citrus and earth.  Kordi supporting his dead weight.  “I’ll get him to the barracks.  No worries.”

Errek glanced back as Kordi dragged him away.  Demeko’s stony expression revealed nothing.  He stiffly turned to the cage.  So much for being a good hunter.

Prodding.  Poking.  Punching.  Errek grabbed Kordi’s hand.  “Knock it off!”

“You with me again?”

“Yeah…”

She held back a cackle.  “I have never seen Demeko make that expression before.  He was <i>horrified</i>.  It was incredible.”

“Shut.  Up.”

She tsked.  “Think you can climb, or do I have to carry you?”

Errek shook his head clear.  Looked down.  They were above the spiral’s landing.  Demeko was vague flickering, shape in the distant firelight.  “No, I’m fine.”  In truth, he was woozy, but he ignored it.  The descent went well, but he stumbled onto the landing.  Kordi steadied him.  He mumbled, “Thanks.”

“Listen, Errek, I like you, so don’t take this the wrong way.  You’re…”  Her hands wheeled meaninglessly as she struggled for the right words.  “You need toughen up.  And fast.  Otherwise, once we’re eating again, you’re not getting any.  Starve long enough, and that’ll be it for you.”

“Thanks for the vote of confidence.”

“I’m serious.  You’re fun, but you’re not much of a hunter.”

“I’ll fix it.  I just need more time.  I’m still learning.”

“Yeah… that’s what worries me.”

He huffed.  “I’ll be fine.”

“I hope so.”  She shrugged and made her way down the spiral.

Errek held back to sulk.  Except, there was nothing to gain by awkwardly standing there alone.  Reluctantly, he followed.  The night was not going how he had hoped.  He thought he had done well.  That, maybe, he could ask Kordi to be his hunting partner until she ascended.  Or at least until Ru did.  Speaking of Ru, was he that flesh lump on the walkway?

“Looks like <i>someone</i> had a bad night,” Kordi snorted as she hopped over Ru.

Errek stopped.  Stared at Ru.  He was so still.  Reaching down, Errek tapped Ru’s shoulder.  The worker curled harder into himself.  Still alive then.  Errek looked up.  The knights were out of sight.

Kordi call back, “You’re falling behind again, Errek.”

“Go on without me.”

A pause.  She glanced between Errek and Ru.  “…Your loss.”  Her tapping footsteps echoed through the pit.

Once Kordi entered the barracks, Errek kneeled.  “Ru, come on.  Get up.  Go to the worker’s den.”

With a groan, Ru creakily unfolded himself.  His flakey skin was pinched with creases and dents from his prior position.  How long had been lying there?  He looked like a dry husk.

Once standing, he cradled his right arm.  His shoulder was misshapen.  Something bulged out of place.  Errek remembered Demeko’s comment: hunters had been pushing Ru off the landing.  He clenched his fists.  Ru turned to leave. 

“Hold on.  You’re hurt…”  Errek grabbed Ru’s forearm and straightened it out.  Ru inhaled through grit teeth.  Something less than a memory prickled through Errek.  A ghost of empathetic pain.  Ru’s arm was dislocated.

And Errek thought he knew how to fix it.  “Let’s see if I can just…”  He lifted Ru’s arm forward and jerked it.  The extra bump sank out of existence.   Ru squealed, yanking back his arm.  Holding it tight to his chest.  Trembling.

Was there an emotion to ease that pain?  Something <i>other</i> than a reward pulse?  If there was, Errek was unaware of it.

Placing his hand on Ru’s neck, he pushed the weakest pulse possible.  As if that made it better.  His instincts warned him not to do this.  Worse yet, the knights had probably heard Ru’s yelp.  They might be watching.  Errek forced himself not to check.

Eventually, Ru’s shoulders dropped.  His breathing evened out.  Errek took his hand away.  “I hope that helped.  Go to the worker’s den.”

“Hunter Errek.”  Ru gave a nodded bow before complying.

Errek flexed his fingers.  Maybe, in small doses and for the right reasons, reward pulses were okay?  The jury was still out on that one.

Shoving his hands in his pockets, he slowly descended the spiral.  Entorani would have been upset that Errek had been so kind.  It was not a hunter’s place to look after lower family members.  Torani would have been proud though.  That was all Errek cared about.

When he reached the hunter’s barracks, he sat down.  His gaze settled on the pit wall.  Its candles had been snuffed out for the day.  What remained was barren rock and stark expanses of wood walkway.  All in shadow.  What a cold, dark place the pit was.

Imagine if there were electric lamps instead of candles.  Or maybe a decorative railing along the walkway.  The whole family would be happier they had some toys to play with.  A fountain’s burbling white noise would bring life to this empty stillness.  And all of it in vibrant color.  The pit would inviting if painted in sage green or sky blue.

Then again, why change this miserable hole?  What had Torani said before he was Entorani?  <i>He wanted something better for them.  </i>Did that mean some<i>place</i> better?

“What are you looking at, Errek?”

He startled.  “K-knight Serana?”  He glanced at her then the pit edge.

“Don’t worry.  Demeko’s already turned in.”   She sat next to him.  “Also, what was wrong with Ru?”

Errek cringed.  “His arm popped out.  I fixed it.  Demeko didn’t see me do that, did he?”

“Yep.”

He groaned.  “Being a good hunter is hard.”

“Hey, you saved me the trouble of fixing Ru.  That’s good to me.”

He gave her a one-sided frown.

“Look, Demeko doesn’t know what to make of you.  That doesn’t mean you’re a bad hunter.”

“Tell that to Kordi.”

“She’s our best right now.  Her standards are high.”

“You’re… making excuses for me.”

“That’s what family does, Baby Duck.”

“Why are you calling me that?”

“Because your momma was a duck, so you are a duck, while I am the snake.  It’s the natural order of things.”

“That doesn’t make any… Wat, what if I want to be a snake?”

“You’ll go far in this world with that attitude!”

“What?”

“But you’re still a duck.”  Serana reached out to ruffled Errek’s hair.  He batted her hand away.  She snatched him into a headlock to do it anyway.  They flailed at one another until he hissed.  She let him go, chuckling.  “Listen, I didn’t come down here to explain the snakes and the ducks to you.  Or…  I guess I did.  I’m here to explain one specific duck.”

“He’s still our family, Serana.”  He bit his lip.  “I don’t have to use your title when it’s just us, do I?”

“You and the prince worry about the wrong things.”

He huffed.  “The point is, he’s not himself right now.  You know that!  If we just wait a little bit, he’ll go back to normal.”

“So… He’ll get better.  Then, we’ll have some fun until he decides to do this again.  Great.”

“What are you saying?”

“This is new for you, but I’m seeing a pattern here.  As soon as our prince finds something better or gets in trouble, he leaves me behind.  It happened when his wings started growing out.  When he set his eyes on you.  And now.  Only, this time, he’s ignoring both of us.  And yeah, sure, he’ll probably beg for our forgiveness later.  He’ll promise things will be different.  And the cycle repeats.”

“It’s not like that!  Once he finds something better for us—"

“That’s a dream, Baby Duck.  His nest?  It’s not happening.  This is as good as it gets.  We’ll live and die here.”

“He can change that!”

“No.  He won’t.”

He turned away from her.  “If Torani can’t make it happen, then <i>I will</i>.”

No response.

He turned back around.  “You were a hunter once.  You’ve been outside.  Don’t you want to be there?”

“I don’t want to believe in dreams that won’t come true.”

“Okay.”  He pulled his legs in and wrapped his arms around them.  “I’ll stop talking about it.”

A sigh.  “Listen, once you’re a knight, we’re gonna be like this.”  She laced her fingers together.  “Whatever happens with the prince, I’ve got your back.  And I’m hoping you’ll have mine.”

“I will.  That’s what this special sub-family thing is for, right?”

“Hope so.  Otherwise, what’s the point?”  She stood.  Took two steps away.  “Don’t worry so much about Demeko.  He puts up with me.  He’ll learn to put up with you when your time comes.”

“Okay.”

“And, one day, if you’re a good duck, you’ll get to be a snake.”

“That makes absolutely no sense.”

Tsking, “That’s duck thinking.”  She ascended the spiral.

Errek got to his feet.  It was well past sunrise now.  Still.  He had one more thing to do.  It would probably fail, but he felt the risk was worth it.  He just hoped Kordi would listen.
