Dusk neared.  Torani had not slept, but he felt better.  At peace.  It would grant him the strength to face initiation.  Best if he were not seen crawling out of Serana’s den, however.  He looked down at her.  She was still asleep.  He kissed her neck.  No time to wait for a real kiss.  Assuming she would even allow it.  Exiting the den, he ascended the wall.

He crawled over the edge into the warm evening air.  Still stagnant, but less so than below.  The world around him was silent except for his own breathing.  He looked at the sconce.  When was the last time he had lit it?  Certainly not since his wings tried to grow out.

A smile lit up his face.  He remembered.  His first time doing it on his own had been his last.  Serana had taught him how to make sparks.  Though new at it, he felt confident he could control it.  As Torani prepped the sconce, Demeko stopped by to micromanage.

That moment of “tutelage” resulted in Demeko and the cage catching on fire.  The cage had since been moved away from the sconce to prevent another conflagration. 

Torani genuinely had control now.  Reaching into the sconce, he felt for kindling.  There was only ash.  After disposing of it, he walked to the far wall.  A pocket had been cut into the rock there beside a log pile.  Their cache of dry moss and twigs.

He grabbed a handful of tinder and an armful of wood.  After arranging it all in the sconce, he released a scattering of sparks.  Blew them into flame.  Shuffled the moss to ensure the underlying wood ignited.

“Evening, prince.”

Torani flinched at the title.  He hoped it looked like he was merely startled.  “Demeko!  Evening…”

The knight not-so-subtly appraised Torani’s work.  He nodded.  “I’ve been meaning to inform you of something.  If you’re available to speak.”

“…Go on.”

“I’ve made an arrangement with Errek.”

“A-arrangement?”

“I promised that if he stayed in place, I would make myself responsible for his training as a knight.  He seemed to need motivation in your absence.  I don’t believe I’ve overstepped my boundaries in making that offer, but I would like to confirm.”

“N-no.  Not at all.  Actually, I’m honored you offered.  I thought you would want nothing to do with him since, well, he’s mine.”

“He’s… a family member.”  Clearly, Demeko had more to say.  Instead, he took his post by the pit edge.

Torani stepped to his side.  “I want to apologize, if you’re willing to listen.”  Momentary confusion infiltrated Demeko’s poker face.  “It’s for something I did when I was beneath your rank.  I doubt I apologized for it at the time.”  Demeko’s bewilderment deepened.  “Zehra told me I bit you as a worker.  I’m sorry about that.”

“It’s not worth apologizing for.  I was used to it by then.”

“What does that mean?”

A slow sigh.  “You bit me as an offering.  You bit me as a grub.  You bit me as a worker.”  Demeko shifted uncomfortably.  “Thankfully, you did not bite me as a hunter, when your real teeth came in.”

Torani stifled a laugh.  Demeko’s posture stiffened with indignance.  “I’m sorry, Demeko, really!  I just… even as an offering?”

“You were never one to accept your place.”  He looked away.  Those words must have slipped out.

“It’s... all right.  You’re not wrong.  I remember how I acted before Ilen rejected me.  I’m aware how much I’ve disrupted the family for Errek.  And… I know I’ve taken it out on you when I didn’t get my way.  I’m sorry about that.”

Demeko crossed his arms.

“If you have something to say, please tell me.”

“Don’t apologize with words, prince.  Apologize with actions.”

“I’m trying.”

“Yes.  That you do…”

“Always holding back, huh?” Torani clicked his tongue.  “Demeko, I’m asking you as a… higher royal seeking guidance.  Advising me is within your duties, right?”

“I suppose…”

“Then tell me what you’re thinking.  Even if it’s something I don’t want to hear.”

Demeko rocked on his heels.  “I thought you were unfit for the family.”  Torani said nothing, so Demeko continued.  “As an offering, you resisted pulses as well as the food can.  You never stopped screaming in the cage.  You never accepted your fate.  I knew you would have problems adjusting to the hierarchy.  The way the queen and princess treated you once they realized your potential made it worse.

“When you reached knight, I decided that fixing you was not my priority.  Soon, you would leave with the princess.  She would get what she earned from spoiling you.  So, I left you in Serana’s hands.  I thought dealing with you would help her understand why knights must be the way we are.  That was a mistake.  For both of your sakes.  If had taken on the responsibility of guiding you then, perhaps it would have made all the difference.”

“And that’s why you’re willing to work with Errek now?”

“Yes.”

“I appreciate that.  I just hope he’s not as… disrespectful as I was.”

“He’s not.”

“I’m glad.  I didn’t want him to turn out like I did.”

“Prince, will you to commit to your rank this time?  No more rebellion.  No more stepping out of place.  Can this initiation be a fresh start for the entire family?”

Torani looked away.  And he thought lying to the queen was hard.  “I’m trying.”

“I suppose that’s the best you can do.”  Demeko resumed to his usual silence.

Below them, the workers assembled on the spiral’s landing.  Ru pushed his way to the front, hissing at the others.  He looked pleased with the wide berth they gave him.  The initiation feast might push his ascension.  He still hunkered down and scurried to the side like a worker when the real hunters darted past him.

Kordi zipped up the wall.  Errek sluggishly followed behind.  He dodged just in time as Kordi tried to push him off the edge.  After a shoving match, she danced away to join the royals.  She walked with such confidence.  What a difference from last initiation.  Serana made her entrance as Kordi greeted each royal in turn.  A picture perfect beginning.

Except Torani barely heard his name.  He was listening to everything, and something was missing.  It was too quiet.  Usually, the sconce’s light woke the offerings.  They would start whimpering.  Shuffling.  Their anxiety tainting the air.

Quietly, Torani went to the cage.  Opened the nearest viewing slat.  Peered inside.  None of the bodies stirred.  They lay in clusters or alone.  Flat on the ground, or propped up against walls.  Torani knocked on a slat.  No one moved.  He kicked the cage, splintering its wood.

“What are you doing?!” Demeko.  Maybe he would have an idea.

Torani frantically waved him over.  Demeko hesitated, but complied.  Serana looked between them before trailing after.  In a harsh whisper, “Go in there and check on them.”

“What?”

“They’re still sleeping.  They should be awake by now.”

Demeko looked through the viewing slat.  He took a deep breath.  “They don’t smell right.”  Jerking back, he reached for the keys and marched to the cage door.

Serana caught his shoulder.  “What do you mean they don’t smell right!?”  He shrugged her off.  His shaking hands undid the first lock.  They fumbled on the second.

<I>STOP</I>.

All the royals flinched.  Vaeilentha touched down in a run and inserted himself between Demeko and the cage.  “What do you think you’re doing!?”

Torani pulled her aside.  “The offerings aren’t moving, Ilen.  Something’s wrong.”

An uncharacteristic tremor shook Demeko’s voice.  “I don’t even hear them breathing.”

“What?”  Vaeilentha cocked her head.  Her gaze traveled from Demeko to Torani.  An accusation in her eyes.

He mouthed, <i>I didn’t do anything</i>.

Laughter echoed across the pit.  The queen greeting her hunters.  Rotero left her side.  Hurried towards the cage.  Even Kordi had drifted over to see what was happening.

Vaeilentha hissed under her breath, “Do not tell me they’re dead!”

Demeko swallowed.

“Wha-what do you mean they’re dead?” Kordi asked.

Rotero shoved the hunter aside.  “What’s all this?”

Demeko bowed his head.  Held out the keys.  “Look for yourself.”

Gingerly, Rotero took the keyring.  Undid the last lock.  Ducked inside.  The horrifying clack of Azehralia’s nearing footsteps was overshadowed by Rotero’s click pulses.  <I>AWAKE</I>.  Pause.  <I>STAND</I>.  A longer pause.  <I>MOVE</I>.  Azehralia wove through the royals to reach the open door.  Rotero looked at her with wide eyes.  He shook his head slowly.

Setting her jaw, Azehralia entered the cage.  Took Rotero by the arm and guided him out.  Kneeling before the nearest bodies, she checked each neck for a pulse.  All three were clammy.  White foam had dried on one’s lips.

She grabbed the next nearest body and shook it like a rag doll to no avail.  Reaching for a fifth, she pulled its arm out of its socket.  Dropped it.  Swooned to the side before catching herself.  Staggered to her feet.  Stumbled out of the cage as if drunk.  A nearly inaudible whisper, “Which one of you did this?”

Silence.

“WHICH ONE OF YOU DID THIS!?”  Black fangs glistened against her grit teeth.  When no one took responsibility, her anger flickered to confusion.  Then intensified.  Her guttural buzzgrowl brought the nest to its knees.  Its end cut off in strangled wheezing.  A wet, raking cough.  Her legs gave.

Rotero shot up to catch her.  To help her down.  She curled into herself as the coughing devolved into a drowning gurgle.  She sputtered pink saliva on Rotero’s clothes.  Turned to the side.  Vomited up a mixture of sticky, brilliant red and viscous, oily black.

Catching her breath, she whined.  Fought free of Rotero’s grasp.  Threw herself into the cage.  Onto the nearest corpse.  Dug through its clothes seeking an explanation.  Nothing sharp, blunt, or dangerous.  Shredding cloth with her claws.  Nearly ripping the body in half.  Scanning flesh up and down.  No bites, bruises, or rashes.  Wrenching the corpse’s mouth open.  Nothing.  Her hands shot into its stomach, ripping out a handful viscera.  Examined it.  Threw it aside to grab more.  Another coughing fit took her.

“Queen Azehralia.”

Her wild eyes turned to Rotero.  Black oil trickled down her mouth.

“Please stop.  You’re hurting yourself.”

She slouched.  Closed her eyes.  Took a deep breath.  Wiping her face clean, she licked the black fluid off her hand.  Crawled out of the cage and sat cross-legged before the other royals.  “So…”  A high croak.  She cleared her throat.  “Somehow, they killed themselves.  That’s new.”

Torani whispered, “What would you like us to do?”

She tilted her head from side-to-side.  “Well, get them out of the cage, obviously.  And then… I don’t trust the meat.  Bury them.”  She pointed to the exit tunnel.  “Far away.  I don’t want it rotting near the nest.  Once that’s done…  The hunters will collect more offerings.  Immediately.  This is a delay, not a cancelation.”

Demeko dared to say, “My queen, this is unwise.  We need to feed the family first.  It’s been too long since—”

“INITIATION BEFORE FEEDING!”

“Yes-my-queen.”

She rubbed her forehead.  “I understand your concern, Demeko.  We will fast a few more nights.  Not another week.  We can survive that.”  A huff.  “Why is no one doing anything about the spoiled meat?”

Demeko and Rotero got to their feet to empty the cage.  Serana whistled the hunters over.  Briefed them on their disposal mission.  Vaeilentha and Torani remained glued in place, staring at Azehralia.

She frowned at them.  “I’m all right.  You two can stop worrying.”

Torani stuttered, “Y-yes, my queen.”

“Perhaps, but you’ve suffered quite a shock.”  Vaeilentha rose, holding her hands out.  “May I?”

Azehralia took Vaeilentha’s hands and stood.  She leaned heavily against Vaeilentha.  “Despite this little squabble of ours, I can depend on you.  I won’t forget this once you’re on your own.”

Torani sat in a daze.  The cage deaths were impossible to process.  What did this mean for the plan?  Would they still act tonight?  Or wait?  He glanced at the puddle of black fluid.  What festered inside Azehralia producing that?  Was it contagious?

Torani looked to Serana.  The remaining hunters.  Only Errek and then, which one was that?  Lenox?  Never mind.  Kordi feel into line behind them.  Three hunters waiting for a knight to bring a body.

Rotero hauled a corpse by the leg.  Passed Torani.

Next up, Demeko struggled with a thickly built man’s weight.  One arm was slung over his shoulders, while the other listed about limply.  Demeko paused to catch his breath.  Knit his brows together.  Closed his eyes as if listening for something.  “I think I hear a heart—” The corpse’s free hand reached for a pocket.

Torani shot to his feet.  “Demeko—!”

A flash of metal.  The offering spun on his heels.  Slammed a knife into Demeko’s back.  Dragged it down.  Demeko went rigid like a plank.  Stayed that way.  The man threw him aside.  Turned to face Rotero.

A clickpulse.  <I>KNEEL</I>.  It had no effect.  The man closed the distance.  Knifed at Rotero’s chest.  Slicing through cloth and skin.  Quick strikes bouncing off his rib cage.  Stunned, Rotero stumbled back.

Serana, Kordi, and Lenox were seconds from ripping into the man.  He dashed for the queen.  Azehralia pushed Vaeilentha away.  Stumbling backwards.  <I>FREEZE</I>.

Unphased, the man reached her.  Struck with all his might.  This time, his knife sank home.  Deep in Azehralia’s heart.  Serana pulled him back.  It pulled the blade from Azehralia’s chest.  Blood spurted onto the hunter frenzy piling onto the man.  They ripped his arms from his torso.  Stripped skin from his chest.  Bit through his screaming flesh.

Serana remained on her feet.  Shaking hands on her belt bag.  Staring at the hole in Azehralia’s chest.  “I don’t know how to fix this!”

Azehralia numbly placed a hand over the wound.  It made no difference.  She lurched forward to retch.  Swallowed something back down.

Torani kneeled by Demeko.  The knight was paralyzed but alive.  Worse yet, he was still conscious.  His eyes quivered out of sync with the seizure rolling through his body.  “Demeko, I have to turn you over.  I’m sorry.”

He rolled the knight.  Imagined the screams Demeko was incapable of expressing.  Squinted at the blood and grime matted along the tear in Demeko’s shirt.  Pushed it out of the way.  Gagged.  Demeko’s spinal column had been cut cleanly in half on an angle.  The spinal cord’s white mass splayed apart like a deveined shrimp between sliced bone fragments.  Demeko would never heal from this.

Desperate for guidance, Torani looked around.  Azehralia was on her back.  Serana had ripped the wound further open.  She frantically tried to sew the heart back together between sobs.  Vaeilentha stood useless above her, staring down in morbid fascination.

Rotero leaned against the cage, grimacing as he electrically cauterized his wounds.  The hunters kept eating.  Errek had stayed by the pit edge, watching it unfold wide-eyed and slack jawed.  No one could tell Torani what he should do.

He leaned down to whisper into Demeko’s ear.  “I don’t know if you can hear me, but I need you to know: I don’t want to do this.  But you won’t get better.  I won’t watch you suffer until Zehra can officially condemn you.  I’m sorry.”

He rolled Demeko onto his back and was met with frantic, pleading eyes.  “I’m sorry.”  Torani ripped his heart out.  Crushed it.  Dropped the wet muscle like a soggy dish rag.  The light in Demeko’s eyes dimmed.

Torani sat back.  Strange that he felt so clear-headed.  He breathed deeply.  The air had changed.  The pheromone concentration dropped.  A moan emanated from the pit.  The workers felt it too.

That miserable sound gave to terrified shrieking.  Running.  Hissing.  A gurgling death rattle.  Ru must have finally lost it.  Taken out another worker.  Nothing held him back anymore.  The queen was dying.

Serana held her dripping, slashed wrist over Azehralia’s silent, barely breathing form.  Amazing that one man could do so much damage so quickly.  Torani glanced at the cage.  What if there was another one.  Alive.  Waiting.  Biding his time.  Jumping to his feet, Torani tightened the chains around the cage.  Redid the locks one-by-one.

Rotero cleared his throat, “Serana.  What do you need to fix her?  More blood?  I can—” He strained to push himself up but fell back against the cage.  Torani dragged Rotero to Azehralia to see her state for himself.  Rotero spewed horrified gibberish.

Torani returned to the task at hand.  The sconce.  A piece of flaming wood with an unlit edge.  It still burned his hand as he picked it up.  He threw it on top of the cage.

“There’s only one thing we can do.” Vaeilentha’s voice was clear.  Precise.  Calculated.  She gently pulled Serana away from the queen.  Even kneeling, Vaeilentha looked regal.  Lit from two directions.  By the flames dancing in the sconce and those devouring the cage.

“You stay away from her!”  Rotero launched at Vaeilentha.  She dodged.  Shoved him back.  Clickpulsed.  <I>KNEEL</I>.  Every family member still able followed the command.

Vaeilentha laughed bitterly.  Her pheromones trickled into the queenless void.  Torani sneezed and shook his head.  His clarity of mind fading.  That was fine.  He had already worked out the consequences.  If Vaeilentha claimed this nest as hers, then he owed her nothing.  Their deal was done.

He turned to Errek.  “Run.”  Errek remained in place.  <I>RUN</I>.  Errek jolted to his feet.  Stumbled back.  Took a few steps towards the exit.  Stopped.  Returned call.  <I>FOLLOW</I>.  What a weak command.  Still, it reminded Torani that he had legs.  He rose.  Another clickpulse from Errek.

Torani ignored it.  Walked towards Vaeilentha.  Towards the squelching as she devouring Azehralia’s heart.  He grabbed Serana by the shirt collar and pulled her away.

Errek darted to Torani’s side, yanking Serana to her feet.  As they passed the sconce, she realized what was happening.  Growling, she swiped at Torani’s face.  A miss.  Errek hung onto her left arm and Torani her right.  They dragged her backwards into the exit tunnel.  She got too close to the wall.  Kicked off it. Sent them all careening to the ground.

She scrambled towards the main chamber.  Torani caught her ankle.  Tearing back around, she leaped on top of him.  Slashing at his face, his chest, his stomach.  A buzzgrowl from Errek.  He launched at her.  

He was not heavy enough to topple her.

She grabbed him by the neck and slammed him into the nearest wall.  A whimper.  He dropped.  Raising her hand.  Ready to strike Torani.  A hiss behind them.  Errek repositioned to try again.

<I>STOP</I>.

Errek flinched back.  “Torani, why!?”

Although the clickpulse had not been directed at her, Serana also paused.  Her claws inches from eviscerating Torani.  He took a pained breath.  “Rana, if I have to fight you to help you, I’ll do it.  Is that what you want?”

Her hands flexed open and closed.  Eyes darting between Torani and the way back in.  Her breathing shallowed.  Her expression flickered between emotions.  Torani carefully reached up.  His fingers nearing the red spot on her neck.  She swatted his hand away and grabbed his throat.  “You take him and run.”  She bolted back into the nest.

“Sera—!”  He sat up too fast.  Organs pushed out of the cuts in his belly.  He wrapped his arms around them to hold himself together.

Hands on his shoulders.  Breath above him.   Errek frantically looked over Torani’s injuries.  A defeated huff.  “We need to go.”

“No.  I’m staying.  Errek, you go…”  Where exactly?  Out of the nest on his own?  Back inside, where Vaeilentha would do who knows what to him?

“Don’t be stupid!”  He dragged Torani to his feet.  “We’re leaving.  NOW.  We’ll come back for Serana later.”

“Did you not see what happened?  She chose to stay!”

“Or, she saw the obvious: if she kept at you, you’d be dead!  You think she wants that?!”  He ran his tongue over his teeth.  “You were right.  I’m not strong enough to help you get her out.  Not yet.”

“That’s—”

“When you talked to her, she forgave you, right?”

“No.”

Errek cringed.

“She was willing to give me another chance though.”

A relieved sigh.  “Exactly.  So, once I’m a knight, we’ll come back and try again.”

“And if we still can’t do it?”

He crossed his arms.  “Look, if you go back to that cold, dark place, that’s on you!”  He uncrossed and recrossed his arms.  “But I only just got you back.  Don’t leave me now!”

Torani looked into the nest.  His mind gears began turning.  “No.  You’re right.  She doesn’t want to be there.  We’re just not strong enough.  We need to wait...”

“Then come on.”  He was already stalking out of the tunnel.

Torani spared one last look into the nest.  “We’ll come back for you.  I promise.”
