Unquenchable fire raced along a black pool, bringing heat without light.  Hungry sand sucked the world into its coarse, abrasive maw.  A disembodied heart beat no matter how many times it was crushed.  Fragmented flashes from Torani’s fitful sleep.  In as much as it could be called sleep.

He fought to reclaim full consciousness.  Delirious, he felt around his den.  No.  Not his den.  Just a hole in the ground.  A makeshift safe spot.  Where was Ile-Ran…?  No.  Errek.  Where was Errek?

Torani was alone.

Panicked, he sat up—bumped into clay.  Wormed around.  There was already a tunnel open to the surface.  Scraping at the walls, he pulled himself forward.  Grabbed a handful of grass from above.  Both hands out.  His torso out.  Panting.  Frantically scanning the horizon.

“Torani?  Are you okay?”

Torani squirmed around to face Errek.  Swallowed.  Sheepishly pulled himself the rest of the way out.  “Evening.”

“Did you think I left you?”

“Not by choice.  Ilen might have the hunters after us.”

“I think she has bigger concerns than us.  Your face looks better.  What about the rest of you?”

Torani ran a hand down his cheek.  Smooth.  Unscabbed.  “I feel better…”  He pulled his collar away to look down his chest.  The topmost cuts had scarred over.  The ones on his belly still gaped open.  If only Serana had come with them.  A few stiches would have gone a long way in keeping him together.  “I’ve been worse.”

“So, what’s the plan?”

“We’ll head…”  He glanced up to get his bearings.  The moon was higher in the sky than he liked.  He turned north.  The trees were further than he had hoped.  “We didn’t get very far last night.”

“With you trying to hold your guts in?  No.  We didn’t.”

Torani struggled to his feet.  “Then we need to get moving.”  His hand conspicuously rested over his belly.  It was obvious he was in bad shape.  Regardless, he held his free hand out to help Errek up.

Errek eyed it but remained in place.  “We could stay underground until that heals.”

In staccato, “The cuts won’t close until I eat.  We have to go.”

“Got it.”  Errek finally took Torani’s hand and stood.

As Torani walked, his wounds rubbed together painfully.  He was grateful that Errek stayed a step ahead.  That he could not see Torani’s flinching grimaces.

“I thought it through while you were sleeping…” Errek began.  “Maybe we don’t have to wait until I reach knight to get Serana.  Vaeilentha isn’t a queen.  I don’t think she was what held Serana back.  I think whatever was left of Azehralia made her stay.  But that can’t last much longer, right?  Maybe, once you’ve eaten, we can ask Serana to come with us again.”

How long had Errek been referring to royals without their title?  Had he had committed that disrespect with other family members?  What other pointless risks had Errek taken!?

Except… that no longer mattered.  No more queen.  No more hierarchy.  No more nest.  And the family that was supposed to sustain Torani through that loss was fractured.

“Torani?”

“Yes?”

“What do you think?”

“It’s safer to wait.”

“You know, the longer we wait, the closer Kordi—and Vaeilentha—get to ascension.”

“Kordi won’t reach prince before you reach knight.”

“You sure?  Vaeilentha told Kordi to start eating while on the hunt.  So she would ascend faster.  I got the impression there’s nothing she wants more than to reach queen.  No matter what the cost.”

A sigh.  “Is it Serana you’re worried about or Kordi?”

“Why can’t it be both?”

“I’m not up for this conversation right now.”

Errek spun on his heels.  “But you said we would talk about this after we left.  <i>We left</i>.”

“The only thing I care about is finding somewhere safe!  Can we not do this right now!?”

“Fine…”

“Thank you.”  Torani took returned his attention to their surroundings.  To the trees just ahead.  A glance south.  To the nest.  He imagined shadows darting towards them.  “Hurry up.”

The scattered, scrubby trees on the forest’s outskirts gave way to conical pines.  As they wove through the tree trunks, the plain’s comforting sounds fell away.  No more chirruping crickets.  No more shushing as the wind caressed the grass.  Just crumbling dead, damp needles sinking underfoot.

Strange that he had misremembered this place in his dreams.  Though the real forest lacked that dark, leafy canopy, the prickly giants still unsettled him.  Ancient towers that stared down with stoic judgement.

Where on earth were they going?  Had Torani truly been this far north before?  He realized he had no idea where the city was.  What if this was the world’s edge?  If, from this point on, there would be only the endless pines.  The occasional nightjar’s futile, ticking screams.

Something deep argued that was nonsense.  A feeling from one of <i>those</i> memories.  It had been a long time since a fragment from Torani’s days before the family had tried to surface.  A long time since he was faced with a novelty they could explain.

Sudden, shifting and crunching behind him.  A running approach?  Torani spun around.  Hand taught and raised.  Ready to dig his talons into… Errek, who was steadying himself after stumbling over a branch.  A slow, jagged exhale.  Why did this place put Torani so on edge?

Errek’s inquisitive eyes, waiting for some direction or explanation, brought Torani back to the moment.  Torani shook his head and resumed walking.  A disapproving click behind him.  He ignored it.  And the disrespect implied by it.  Maybe Demeko had lied when he said Errek was…  Demeko was something Torani did not want to think about.

What mattered was Errek had changed in Torani’s absence.  In some ways for the better.  And in others…  The sooner they started talking, the sooner Torani could correct the damage.  Besides, in the silence, all Torani’s mind could do was flit from one anxiety to the next.

“Errek, I—”  He stepped on something hard and raised.  Looked down.  Black, textured asphalt.  His gaze traced the road’s path, cutting east and west through the forest.  A faint glow to his right marked civilization.  So… this part of his dream <i>had</i> been real.  He had been here before.

Errek stepped to Torani’s side, hands in his pockets.  “There’s a road out here?”

“There’s always a road.  And roads always lead to the city.”

“Kordi said the city is dangerous.”

“That’s exactly why we’re going there.  I’m hoping we’ll have it to ourselves.”

A snort.  “Well, I’ve got no complaints.  I love seeing the things the food builds.”

“Me too.”  A genuine smile spread across his face.  At least they had <i>something</i> in common.  He squinted eastwards.  It would be a long walk to reach the light.  Driving would be better.  “I’m going to hunt.  And claim my right to the better meat since…”  He looked down at his stomach.

“…No, you’re not.”

Torani’s fists clenched.  “Excuse me?”

“You’re hurt.  I’ll hunt for you.  That’s what I’m built for anyway.”

Torani centered himself with a slow breath.  Errek should have known better than to disagree so bluntly.  Should have stated his intentions in the first words.  Clearly, they had left the nest at the right time.  “I’d rather do it myself.”

“What about your wings?”

“My…”  Torani reached for his shoulder but stopped.  He realized what Errek meant.  In their haste to leave, he had not grabbed his coat.  Errek did not have his either.  Torani’s useless wings would remain on full display.  Another problem that hunting could solve.

“I’m pretty sure the food doesn’t have those.”

“No… Do you think you can handle a road hunt by yourself?”

“Walk out, play hurt, flop on the ground, wait for the food to take pity, and strike.  No big deal.”  As he spoke, a car motored past them.  He considered its taillights.  “Except I’m not sure <i>when</i> to walk out.  How close the car should be.”

“I can tell you when.  But let’s scope the road out first.  Look for a place to hide.  One where I can see the car coming but the driver can’t see us.  You go that way.”  He pointed west as he turned to go east.

While combing through the rare bushes, Torani kept an eye on the road.  It seemed like the first car had been driving awfully fast.  As he investigated a thorny shrub, another car drove though heading east.  Again, it moved at top speed.  Sure, it had been the same on his old route, but out in plains he could see for miles.  In here, with the trees obscuring the road, it was like they were in a tunnel.  Constrained.  Limited.

“Hey, Torani!”

He turned to see Errek running his way.  “What?”

“The road ended!”

“What do you mean, ‘it ended?’”

Slowing to a stop, “It ended.  Another road crossed over it, and then that one goes a little bit further north, and then… trees.”

So much for all roads lead to the city.  “I guess we’ll hunt here then…”

They checked both sides of the road until they finally found a bush clump where they could watch eastbound traffic unseen.  Settling in to wait for the next car, the uncomfortable silence resumed.  Aimless fears kaleidoscoped through Torani’s thoughts.  He raked his mind for anything sensible to say.  To talk about.  To get him out of his head.  To—

“Torani?”

“Mhm?”

“Stop worrying so much.  Whatever’s bothering you, we’ll find a way to deal with it.  Okay?”

A twitch of smile.  “Shouldn’t I be saying that to you?”

“I don’t think hunters worry much.  I see problems and fix them.”

“That sounds about right.  I suppose worrying is the privilege of a… whatever the hell I am.”

“Of a Torani.”

“And Serana thinks you take after me…”  Two light pricks in the distance.  “Errek, you see that?”

The hunter nodded as the lights flickered between obstructing trees.

“You ready?”

“Absolutely.”  Errek rose to a half crouch.  Still hidden, but poised to fake a drunken trek across the pavement.

The headlights came as two glowing eyes, piercing through the darkness.  Blinking out for a moment.  Growing larger when they reopened.  “Almost…”  Torani flattened himself under the bush to get a better view.  The car took form.  Passed his mental checkpoint.  “Now!”  It was faster than he realized.  Too close.  Errek was already staggering across the road.  The driver would not have time to react.

<I>DROP</I>.

Errek went down in time with the squealing breaks.  Wheels rose over his body.  A dull, wet thud as the car chassis bounced on its axles.  Skidding burnt rubber.  The car swerved to a stop in the wrong lane.

Torani froze in place.  Staring at Errek’s inert form.  Begging it to rise.  To quiver.  To cough.  Anything!   Finally, Errek’s shaking hand rose to rub his forehead.  Torani exhaled.

Commanding his jelly legs to support him, Torani stumbled to Errek’s side.  Kneeled.  Looked the hunter up and down.  The scrapes would become bruises.  A brief smell of iron.  But Errek was not hemorrhaging.  His foot was facing the wrong direction though.

Errek strained to sit up.  Stared down at his twisted leg.  Poked it.  “That doesn’t look good… Shouldn’t this hurt?”

Torani choked out a nonsense syllable.  Cleared his throat to try again.  Stiffened at the clicks of a car door opening.  The dazed driver stepped out of the vehicle, almost collapsing.  He caught his weight on the door.  “Hey, Buddy, are you all right!?”

In a harsh whisper, “Give me a minute.”  Torani shot to his feet.  Stalked towards the car.

“Oh, thank god!  I thought you were—!"

Torani rammed the driver into the car, rocking it sideways.  Jammed his teeth into the man’s neck.  Bit deep as if to decapitate him.  All animosity faded amid the blood’s heat.  Torani had forgotten how long it had been since he had eaten.  Amazing how a simple meal could take edge off.

When the veins emptied, Torani dropped the corpse carelessly.  The unwelcome memory of Ander’s mutilated body hemorrhaging royal blood made him cringe.  Shaking it off, Torani examined his belly.  Hopefully, the driver’s blood would seal the gaping cuts instead of belching out of them.  Otherwise, he had wasted it, and it should have gone to Errek.

Turning to Errek, “Are you okay?”

He blinked.  “I got hit by a car.”

“Well… If you don’t feel it, then it’s probably not that bad, right?”

“I can’t move my leg.”

“…Wait a few minutes and try again.”

“Really?”

Torani had no idea what to do.  He had to focus on the practicalities.  Scavenging resources.  Cleaning up.  Moving on.  The car would do.  As for the corpse...  Unfortunately, the driver had no coat or jacket.  

Clicking his tongue, Torani glanced from his own filthy rags to the driver’s cleanly-pressed button down.  That would be an improvement over his shredded mess.  He peeled his shirt off and tossed it into the passenger’s seat.

“Torani, it ran over my <i>left</i> leg.  That was my <i>good</i> leg.”

“I’ll take a closer look in a minute.”  For whatever meaningless comfort that would provide.  Swallowing hard, Torani set about undoing the button down.  It would have been a tight fit to begin with, but there was no way he could cram his wings under it.

He ripped two long holes in the back with his teeth.  After pulling it around his shoulders, he carefully ran a hand over his belly.  Checked his palm.  Just a shine of yellowy plasma.  The wounds were not weeping blood.

“Okay, I think I’m starting to feel it.” Errek shot forward to cradle his leg.  “YEAH!  DEFINTELY FEELING IT!”  Words gave way to choked off sounds.  Torani hurried back, fumbling to get the last button fastened.  Errek’s wild eyes turned on him.  “NICE SHIRT!  PRIORITIES!”

“Shut it and let me look!”  Torani pried Errek’s arms from the leg.  There was nothing to see but Errek’s trousers.  After nicking the hem with his teeth, Torani ripped the fabric away.  Still no signs of blood.  Good.  Except the purple and yellow tinges began at Errek’s knee and ended at his ankle.  If it was already showing this clearly, the final bruise would stain his skin for weeks.  Not good.  Torani gently pressed down on the middle of the leg to check for broken bones.

Errek slammed Torani into the pavement.  “DON’T DO THAT!”

Torani grabbed Errek’s hair.  Yanked him to the side.  Had to stopped himself from bashing the hunter’s face into oblivion.

Slowly, he pushed Errek down until his forehead touched the road.  “<i>Never</i> lay your hands on me again.”  He held Errek in place to make the message clear.  Their individual pants flowed out of sync.

Guilt washed over Torani.  This was not how he wanted to treat his family.  When he released Errek, he edged away.  “Where’s Serana when you need her?”  He shook his head.  “We can’t stay here.  Another car will come.  I need to move you.  It’s going to hurt.  I’m sorry.”

“Sure you are.”

Torani scraped his nails against the road.  “We can have this fight later.  I need to move you.  <i>And I am sorry</i>.”

Though Torani tried to be gentle, Errek gave strangled whines as he was lifted.  Rushing to the car, Torani laid Errek on the bench behind the driver’s seat.  Next, Torani’s attention turned to the driver.  Food would help Errek heal.  Or at least eating would keep him occupied.  Distract him from the pain.  Torani heaved the corpse over his shoulder.  Darted to the car’s other side.  Laid it over Errek like a blanket.

“Rest of the driver’s yours.  Eat while he’s fresh.”

“Are you serious?  Do you really think I’m hungry right now!?”

“Try not to make a mess.  I’d like to dump the car later without any fuss.”

“SURE!  OKAY!  WHATEVER!”

“Errek!”  Torani realized he was too tired to yell.  Even if he had the energy, what was the point?  What would he gain from it?  “I messed up.  I know.  Please.  Work with me.”

Errek said nothing.

Torani slammed the door and stormed over to the driver’s side.  Climbed in.  Thankfully, the keys were still in the ignition.  He backed the car up into its proper lane and drove toward civilization’s beckoning lights.

His tense shoulders relaxed when he heard the clicks and crackle of skin pulling apart.  Of meat tearing from tendon and bone.
