For whatever it was worth, Torani was certain this car was faster than the ones he typically dealt with.  Early in the trip, he had tested the accelerator.  The speedometer’s arrow moved just past the halfway point when Torani reached what he thought should be the max speed.

And then he gunned it.  There was a thrill in pushing the car to its limits.  Seeing the arrow fall on the dial’s final symbol.  Careening around curves past tree-shaped blurs.

Errek swore at every bump they hit, so Torani quit joy riding.  Better to take easy and avoid hurting Errek further.  Errek need to stay calm.  That was why Torani kept quiet about the vehicle’s power.  Even if it did explain his miscalculation.

The fact was, Torani was still responsible for Errek’s injuries.  No point in blaming the car’s superior capabilities.  What mattered learning from that mistake.  And keeping Errek safe.  Especially now.  The words <i>that was my good leg</i> still haunted Torani.

However, that was a concern for later.  He no city memories, but he was sure he would know it when he saw it.  And all he saw was forest.  Sure, they passed some stray houses along the route, but nothing substantial.  Then the road ended and Torani had to turn left.  That road ended too.  He backtracked to find another route.

Since then, they had driven through what looked like a town.  A conglomeration of buildings they passed before Torani recognized what it was.  When he hit another dead-end, he tried to backtrack to it.  He never found it.

Glowing dots in the distance drew him in.  Each one was a false beacon.  A porch light.  A stray street lamp.  A car heading in the opposite direction.  The further Torani went, the greater the distance between one light and the next.

He had to be going the wrong way.  Unsure what to do next, he started taking turns at every junction.  That failed to improve the situation.  More scattered houses.  A sawmill.  A lonely school.  Nothing that could support the masses that congregated in a city.  The night was waning.  And he was out of ideas.
 
It dawned on him how silent the backseat had become.  Errek must have finished eating.  Swallowing down the anxiety, Torani asked, “How are you doing, Errek?”

“Ignoring my leg?  Fine, I guess.  I had forgotten how hungry I was until I started eating.”

“Yeah.  Same.”

“What about you?”

“Me?  Why…?”  He remembered his own injuries.  A quick belly-check revealed layers of scar tissue.  No organs poking out.  “A lot better.”

“Good.”  A long, horrible pause threatening to revert into the awful silence.  “Can I ask a favor?”

“Sure, what?”
  
“I’ve eaten all the good stuff.  What’s left is starting to smell.  Can you get rid of it?”

“No problem.”  Torani scanned his surroundings as he coasted.  Trees, trees, and more trees.  “I guess this is as good a place as any…”  He slowed to pull off the road.  Parked.  Went to the back of the car.  Opened the door.  Was met with carnage.

Errek lay across the bench seat with his arms crossed.  His clothes were stained muted red and tawny yellow.  The hollowed-out corpse had been unceremoniously dumped into the leg space.  Ripped-open.  Chest facing up.  Stiff arms flailed awkwardly in the air.  Legs folded underneath it.  The sticky, leather upholstery was spattered with various bodily fluids and stray organ bits.  <i>Wonderful</i>.

Sighing, Torani yanked the cadaver out of the car and dragged it into the woods.  There were no bushes nearby.  Instead, he shoved aside pine needles with his foot, forming a divot and a mound.  The body went into the divot.  He smoothed the needle mound back over it.

No point in hiding the body better.  They would leave the area soon enough.  Besides, once the animals got to it, no one would question where the meat had gone.  He spared the body once last glance.  Such as waste of scraps.  Especially when the workers and grubs back at the nest had fasted for over a week…

No.  They would be fine.  Vaeilentha would send the hunters out to feed the family.  She had the power to make them listen.  Right?  He swallowed.  <i>That</i> family was not his concern anymore.  All that mattered was Serana, and she could handle herself.

Returning to the car, Torani made to close the passenger side back door.  Stopped.  He had no idea where to go.  Now was as good a time as any to try again.  “Can I see your leg?”

Errek eyed him suspiciously.  “Do you want to <i>see</i> it or jiggle my bones around some more?”

“I’m trying to help, Errek.”   He glanced down at the leg.  It had turned vibrant purple.  “I need to know how bad the break is.  I can tell you need a splint but I don’t know where to put it.”

Errek placed his hands midway down his left calf.  “Probably over this bendy part.  I don’t remember it doing that before.”

Torani ran his tongue over his teeth.  “You and Serana spent far too much time together in my absence.”

“I talked to her for all of five minutes, Torani.”

This sass was unbecoming of a hunter.  Torani turned away from the car.  He would need a solid branch to—

“Either way, don’t you <i>like</i> Serana?  If I’m reminding you of her, then why—?”

“Serana earned the right to be—!”  Torani exhaled sharply.  “Never mind!  Just drop it!”  He skulked into the woods to find a suitable splint stick.  To think, he had been so frustrated back when Errek was a newly ascended worker.  When he could not speak.  Did not understand.  Was so afraid.  Now, he had grown into this disrespectful, snide, low-ranked—!

<i>That</i> was the problem.  The only reason Errek’s backtalk bothered him: rank.

Torani had spent so much time defying the hierarchy.  Telling himself he wanted it gone.  Apparently, he only despised rank and order when it failed to serve his interests.  Is that what he wanted to teach Errek?  That privilege was used to keep those without it in line?

A fallen branch caught Torani’s attention.  Kneeling, he tested its strength.  Thick and sturdy.  He sheared off the branchlets and snapped it down to size.  Nodding he returned to the car.

He grabbed the remains of his old shirt.  Crouching on the ground, he tore the fabric into strips.  Makeshift bandages.  As he worked, he felt Errek’s eyes on him.  He dared not check whether that gaze was filled with curiosity or distain.

When he dropped the last shirt strip onto the pile, Torani leaned back against the car.  “You have to make a choice, Errek.  I can splint your leg as is.  If we’re lucky, that’ll be fine.  If we’re unlucky... it won’t heal right.  If it heals wrong, even Serana might not be able to fix it later.  Or you let me check it.  I’ll try to fix it if your bones are out of place.  And it’ll hurt.  A lot.  But you’ll heal better.”

A muffled muttering, “I can’t have two bad legs.”

“Then you’ll let me look?”

“Yeah…”

 “Thank you.”  Torani stood.  He placed the branch and bandages on the car’s floor.  With one knee on the car seat, he hovered over Errek’s twisted leg.  As he reached down to touch it, Errek caught his wrist.

“I’m already in pain.  If I bite you, it’s not personal.  It’s a reflex.”

An awkward laugh.  “Maybe you should bite the chair instead.”

That comment had been a joke, but Errek regarded the bench seat’s back seriously.  Shrugging, he sank his teeth into it.  Perhaps that was for the best.  

Torani carefully wrapped his hand around Errek’s leg just below the knee.  As he moved down, he pinched gently, seeking weak spots.  Two inches in, his fingers depressed something, and Errek hissed.

Releasing it, Torani tried to gauge how bad the break was.  The bone’s movement felt sinewy.  Like a half-broken branch flexing on its remaining fibers.  Torani moved to Errek’s ankle, repeating the process moving upwards.  This time, he only moved up an inch before the bone flexed under his touch.  At least two breaks.

Placing his fingers at each break point, he depressed the top one.  The bottom one pushed up in sync, like a seesaw.  Only two breaks.  The injury’s mechanics were fascinating.  Errek’s gurgling swears and the zip of tearing seat fabric kept Torani on task.  If he could get both ends realigned, Errek would walk on that leg again.  Probably.  Hopefully.  Torani went to work.

The lower section seemed happy enough to slip back into place.  But the upper break resisted pressure.  Efforts to realign it popped the lower half back out.  Meanwhile, Errek kicked at Torani with his right leg.  Torani climbed on top of him to hold it in place.  White, cottony flufflets drifted through the air as Errek raked his nails along the seat back.

Exasperated, Torani shoved the lower break in place again.  Grabbing the pine branch, he gripped it tight against the bone to hold it still.  Finally, he squeezed down on the upper break until it suddenly snapped into position.

Errek gave one strangled shriek as he tore the upholstery off the seat.  After that, the only sound in the car was his violent panting, muffled through a mouthful of leather and cushion stuffing.  Torani quickly bound the branch in place to make the splint.

Once that was done, he sat on the seat edge.  Waiting.  Finally, Errek eased back.  He still had a mouthful of leather.  Torani picked cotton fuzz from Errek’s sticky form.

Spitting out the seat cover in disgust, “You done torturing me?”  Errek’s voice was weak.  He coughed up a soggy cotton ball before Torani could respond.

“This will probably heal the right way.”

“After what you put me through, it better!”

“It will!”  Torani swallowed down the frustration.  He rolled up his right shirt sleeve to show a jagged scar.  “You broke my arm when you were a grub.  It came back together all right.”

“I broke your arm?  <i>Really?</i>  How?”

“Grubs bite hard.”

“So… I bit you.  And you ran me over with a car.  I guess that’s fair.”

Torani snorted despite himself.  He opened his mouth to continue the joke, but shut it again.

Errek’s gaze was fixed on the window.  At the sky above them.  “It’s getting late.  Are we going to make it to the city tonight or do we need to dig a den?”

“I don’t know.”  Torani’s shoulders crept up.  “I don’t know where we are.  I don’t know where the city is.  There was supposed to be one north of us.”

“There’s one to the west too.  Kordi showed me.”

A moment of hope.  “So you how to get there?!”

“If we go back to the nest, sure.”

“We’re not doing that.”  He shook his head.  “So, we’re back to driving around aimlessly.”

“If I have an idea, will you try it?”

“I’d try anything at this point.”

“A few roads back we passed a parked car.  I think someone was sleeping in it.  We can ask for directions.”

“We’re not talking to the food.”

“You said you’d try anything.”

“Errek, did you forget what happened when you talked to Virginia?”

Errek mouthed the syllables in confusion.  Frowned.  “Her name was <i>Elizabeth</i>.”

“Does it matter!?”

“What I remember happening with <i>Elizabeth</i> was that she told the truth as soon as I pulsed her.  So, asking for directions sounds like a solid plan to me.”

Torani buried his face in his hands to muffle a groan.

“Is it really worse than driving around and hoping for the best?”

“No.”  Torani stood up and hopped out of the backseat.  “Fine.  We’ll try it.  Worst case scenario, I’m still hungry.  I imagine you are too.”

“Base case scenario, we <i>still</i> eat the guy.”

Torani leaned in to ruffle Errek’s hair.  Errek batted his hand away.  Shaking his head, “You’ve always hated that.”

As Torani closed the door, Errek sniped back, “Then why keep doing it?!”

Torani climbed into the driver’s seat.  “Maybe you’ll change your mind.”

“I won’t.”

With a mock sigh, Torani rolled the car back onto the road and turned it around.  Creeping along the dark streets, he kept his eyes peeled for the other car.  Hopefully, it was not too far back.  He only remembered the last few turns he had made.  Thankfully, he saw it as he passed it.

Shifting into reverse, Torani eased to a stop next to the parked vehicle.  A shiny red and black thing.  Sleek.  With spare tires set in the frame.  Torani had never felt an affinity for the black boxes he dealt with nightly, but that car had style.

Its owner snoozed in the driver’s seat.  His hat was lowered over his eyes and his jacket laid over his chest as a blanket.  Torani parked, got out, and walked to the sleeping man with his wings tucked tightly to his body.

Knocking on the windshield startled the man awake.  After hard blinking, his confusion shifted to a bright smile.  He quickly cranked his window down to greet Torani.  “Good evening!  Or morning?”  He checked his watch.  “Awfully dark for a wake-up call…  You having some trouble?”  He placed his arms on the door and rested his head on top.  He already looked submissively helpful.  Too easy.

“I suppose I am.”  Torani’s fingertips made contact with the man’s neck.  “Can you give us a hand?”

Distant and dreamy, “Yeah, of course.  No problem…”

Torani opened the door and helped the man exit the car.  The door frame got in the way.  He switched hands to keep man in check.  The two walked to the other car’s driver side.  Torani opened the door, waving for the man to climb in.

The man hesitated.  “If you’re having car trouble, shouldn’t we start with the engine?”

“Get in.  I’ll explain.”  The man reluctantly climbed in.  Torani crawled over him to get into the passenger’s seat.  He nodded to Errek.  So far, things were going well.  “We’re trying to get to the city, but I’m a little lost.”

“So, you need directions?” The man relaxed.  That chiming tone returned to his voice.  “Which city?  Denver or Colorado Springs?”

“…Whatever is closest.”

“Well, Colorado Springs is less than an hour from here.  And you were heading in the right direction.”  He shifted position to point into the darkness.  “You’ll want to take to take two rights and a left to get onto Burgess.  Take her east until you hit Templeton Gap.  Then you can ride her all the way into town.  Oh, there is one tricky part after you’ve left Black Forest.  You’ll join up with East Woodmont for a moment.  Just keep heading southwest and you’ll have no trouble.”

“Perhaps you should take us there.”

“It’s an easy route.  You don’t need me!”

Torani pulsed that desire to help harder.  “The thing is, I don’t know the roads.”

“Read the street signs.  That’s what they’re for.”

 “I also can’t read.”

“That’s a shame.  A good education can fix that!”

Clearly, helpfulness was too weak an emotion.  Torani switched to subservience.  “I need you to drive us to the city.  Now.”

“Well, I can’t do that.”

“Put.  Your hands.  On the steering wheel.”

The man’s shaking hands rose into position as he protested, “No, no you don’t understand.  You won’t make it to the city.  You’re out of gas.”  He anxiously tapped on the fuel gauge.  “I doubt you’d even make it to the general store to get more.”

“Okay… What about your car?  Do you have gas?”

The man shifted uncomfortably.  “Well, I did gas up before I settled in for the night…”  A smile lit up his face.  “You see, I’m making a very important trip to Denver tomorrow for a job interview!  Sales, you know?  I love traveling.  Anyway, they’re expecting me bright and—”

Torani covered his mouth.  “Let’s take your car to Colorado Springs.  Understood?”

“Ah… right.  …All right.  I suppose I’ll have enough time to still make it to my interview...”

“It won’t be an issue.”  Torani looked back.  “Errek, can you get to the other car, or do I need to help you?”

“I can’t walk on this.”

Keeping the man in check while carrying Errek was going to be—

“My goodness, that’s a lot of blood!” the man exclaimed.  “Are you all right?”

Errek shrugged.  “I got hit by a car.  It could have been worse.”

“I should say so!”

“Also, it’s not my blood.  We ate the driver.”

Panic overtook the man.  Torani momentarily lost his electrical hold on him.  Calm.  Subservience.  Obedience.  All useless.  Finally, Torani settled on hopelessness.  It got the job done. 

Tearing up, the man mumbled, “That sounds delightful…”

“Errek, leave the talking to me, please.”  Torani exited the passenger side and yanked the man out after him.  Errek had already opened the back door.  Torani and their unwilling guide pulled Errek out of the car.  They held his weight up until Errek got his less-bad leg onto the ground.  Errek leaned on them as he hopped to the red and black car.

Once everyone was settled, Torani let out a weary sigh.  Keeping the food under control but still able to make decisions was exhausting.  He turned to the guide.  “Start driving.”

One last moment of panic from the man.  Of wild eyes darting around, seeking alternatives.  His head drooped.  He turned the keys in the ignition without looking at them.  The car rolled onto the road and headed into the darkness.  At the first turn, he said, “So, your friend is Eric.  I’m John, by the way.”

“It’s Er-rek,” the hunter corrected.

“Ah… can’t say I hear the difference, sorry.  But anyway, what brings you two—?”

“Listen.”  Torani cranked up the electrical pressure.  “Your life is over.  Nothing you say will save you.  Chatting is pointless.  It just makes you annoying.”

“Well, that’s outright unfriendly!”  Despite his joking tone, John started sobbing.  It continued the entire car ride.  Evolving into hiccupping.  And then quiet shivering as he accepted his fate.

John never made it to Colorado Springs.  Torani had him pull over once they reached the city outskirts.  After a quick meal, the body was dumped into an impromptu grave.  John’s jacket fit Torani like a glove.
