“You all right back there, Errek?”

“Sure.”  Errek hid his frustration.  It was the fourth time Torani had asked since they entered the city.  The failed prince was beyond anxious.  Jumping at the slightest sounds

And sure, Errek could sympathize with Torani.  He understood their situation’s gravity.  The risk this novel, unpredictable place posed.  However, that caution was overshadowed by impatience with his own intolerable, uselessness.

Torani made their over-day den by himself.  Errek never found a painless position where he could help.  Earlier this evening, Errek got stuck underground.  Torani had to dig him out.  An excruciating process that left them both irritated.

And then there was the walking problem.  Errek told Torani to leave him behind.  To explore the city alone.  Torani, of course, refused.  Errek was forced to come along.

So now, Torani wandered dark side streets and lonely tree patches with Errek on his back.  A pathetic embarrassment.  A mirror of when Rek was ascending to hunter.  Except <i>Er</i>rek was larger and heavier.

He could tell Torani struggled with the weight.  And avoiding crushing Torani’s sensitive wings was borderline impossible.  Basically, an experience Errek had hoped would be an exciting venture into the unknown had become a neurotic pity party.  For both of them.

At least he had seen what his life would be like once his leg healed.  Tall buildings.  Neon signs.  Laughing crowds that flocked the streets well past sunset.  Gizmos and gadgets glimpsed so quickly that Errek had no time to beg his memory to reveal their names.

Downtown was its own world.  Torani had accidently stumbled into it.  Naturally, he decided it was too dangerous.  They left as soon as they arrived.

Since then, Torani had stalked Colorado Springs’ perimeter.  And he had found most depressing streets the city had to offer.  A business district.  Older.  Run down.  Shining neon gave way to metal drum fires.  The social elite with their jangling jewelry and practiced smiles were replaced by stragglers and strays layered in patchy clothing.

Kordi would have deemed this a better hunting ground.  Even so, Errek hoped they would not live in this stale, dingey place.   Not when there was such vibrancy elsewhere.

At a side alleyway’s edge, Torani wrapped his hand around a fire-escape ladder.  Glanced up.  A sigh.  He let go and turned away.

Errek grabbed the ladder to keep Torani from walking off.  “You wanna look from the roof, yeah?”

“It’s fine.  The buildings aren’t that high anyway.  I can see enough from here.”

“I know I’m too heavy for you to carry me up there.  But you can leave me alone for a minute while you scope the place out.”

“Errek, I don’t think—”

“I won’t go anywhere.  And no one can touch me.  Bad leg or not.”  He gave a gleaming shark smile.

“Don’t interrupt.”

Errek huffed and waited for the excuse.

A slow, pointed inhale and exhale.  Torani raised his hands as if to emphasize whatever point he was going to make.  Then dropped them.  “You’ll stay out of trouble?”

“I think I need two working legs to get into trouble.”

“Errek.”

“I’ll wait for you.  I’ll be quiet.  <i>It’ll be fine</i>.”

Torani considered it too long.  Errek was sure he would say reject the idea in the end.  “No” had become Torani’s favorite word.  He unexpectedly nodded.   “Okay.  You’re right.  No one knows were here.  Food or otherwise.  There’s no reason to be overly cautious.”  He kneeled to let Errek down.

Errek scrambled off, worried Torani might change his mind.  Oh, how he had missed the feeling solid ground beneath him!  The foreign concrete felt strangely familiar.  Like home.

“I’ll be right back.  Don’t go anywhere.”

A forced thumbs up.

After a moment of hesitation, of poorly concealed concern, Torani shot up the ladder.

Errek whispered to himself, “Take your time, Torani.”  Cracking his knuckles, he stared at the wrapping on his left leg.  How long would it take to heal?  Maybe walking would help.  Assuming he could put any weight on it.

One quick look up.  No sign of Torani.  Perfect.

Pushing against the wall with his hands, Errek forced his right leg to stand.  A flinching grimace.  Though in better shape, that leg had its own bruises.  And it had never carried his weight alone.  If he could just get the other leg straight—

“Dammit!”  Sucking in a gasp, he collapsed.  Silly of him to think he could flex his ankle.  Now what?  So long as he was incapacitated, Torani would hover over him like… <i>like a mother duck</i>.  It would have made such a difference if Serana were here to keep Torani busy.  To spoon-feed him reality.  Oh well.

Errek scanned his surroundings.  A troupe of three individuals huddled together by a fire further down the main alley.  Beyond it, a chain-link fence marked an old warehouse’s perimeter.  And beyond that… He craned his neck to look around wall in his way.  He would need to be a giraffe to see more.

Tsking, he settled back in place.  Closed his eyes.  The distant fire’s crackling soothed him.  That gentle hissing and popping.  White noise to fill the dead air lingering between brick buildings.  Its occasional tinging impact.  The one that came on cue like a slow heartbeat.

Since when did fire have a pulse?

Errek reopened his eyes and stared deeper into the dark corridor.  Another ting.  Something was coming his way.  Squinting, he tried to understand the form underlying that fuzzy silhouette.  It had a human-shaped head and body, but its arms were unnaturally long.  So long that they touched the ground.

Its legs swung together, balancing like an off-center tripod.  When the grizzled figure dipped into the firelight, Errek put the image together.  A man on <i>crutches</i>.  That was the word for those things.

“Pardon old Eddie coming through.”  The crutch tips landed just beyond Errek.  The man gracefully glided over him.  For an instant, Errek saw an opening.  All he had to do was get one crutch.  He could make do with one.  Grab it.  Scramble to his feet.  And bolt.  Unless this <i>Eddie</i> fellow held tight.  How would the bystanders react to some stranger wrestling with a local over his crutches?

Moments later, Eddie continued unharassed into the main alley.  Errek watched his progress intently.  Eddie greeted the group around the fire by waving a newspaper.  Continued toward the warehouse.  Peeling back a loose fence section, he ducked under.

His path took him past two roll-up garage doors, both locked down.  Sets of broken-in, boarded-up windows came next.  After struggling up a pair of too-high concrete steps, he swung open a door that was missing its handle.  The bulb above the threshold momentarily flickered red before dying out as the door shut.

Errek licked his lips.  Dear Eddie would make for quite the practical meal.  Steps on metal above.  The smile on Errek’s face deepened as he looked to the fire escape.  Good timing, Torani.

Torani stepped off the ladder slowly.  Tiredly.  “This looks like a decent place to setup.  I wouldn’t say the buildings are abandoned, but they’re not in good shape.  I’m sure we could find a forgotten corner to sleep in.  And there’s lots of food that won’t be missed.”

“Works for me, I guess.  I have a proposition for you though.”

A tight, nervous smile.  “And that would be?”

“Does the word ‘crutches’ mean anything to you?”

After a moment of confusion, Torani’s eyes lit up.  “It does.  Good idea!  I can find you a set.”

“I already found them.”  He pointed at the warehouse.  “And they come with a free meal.”

Whatever joy had momentarily filled Torani’s heart died.  An uncomfortable frown appeared on his face.

Errek’s expression mirrored Torani’s.  “What?”

“Inside?”

“Yeah?  What’s the problem?”

“I’ve never hunted inside… And we have no idea how many bodies are in there…”

“We’ll figure it out.  Come on.  Pick me up.”

Crossing his arms and leaning away, “This isn’t a good idea.  It’s easier and safer to hunt out here.  I’m sure there’s more than one set of crutches wandering around.”

“And if there’s not?”

“We’ll wait until the set you saw is outside again.  One way or another, I’ll get you some.”

“So.  Until then, I’m dead weight.”

“You’re not—”

“I’m the definition of dead weight.”

“Errek.  Stop.  Interrupting me.”

“Come on.  Let’s at least take a look.   If Eddie’s alone in there—”

“’Eddie?’  You talked to the food <i>again</i>?”

“No, the food talked to me.”

“Errek—!”

“I said nothing.”

“I leave you alone for two minutes and—!”

“And what!?  I sat here.  Doing nothing.  And—!”

Torani dropped to his knees to grab Errek’s shoulders.  “This is the last time I’m going to say it: Stop.  Interrupting me.”

“Sure, <i>Prince</i>.”

A growl slipped through Torani’s lips.  He slammed his fist against the wall.  The other hand’s nails dug into Errek’s flesh<i>.  Such drama</i>.  Errek resisted the urge to eyeroll.

Torani licked his teeth and reset his jaw.  “All I ask is for you to be respectful.  Instead, you take cheap shots at me.  Are you proud of that?”

Why in the hell was <i>this</i> the thing Torani was losing his little mind over!?  Especially after the last few nights.  Seeing the queen murdered.  Leaving Serana behind.  When Errek got hit by a car.  Torani had handled each of those events better than he responded to a little verbal bite.   “You interrupt me too.  Only I don’t throw a fit about it.”

“I have the right to interrupt.  I’m older than you.  I’m more experienced than you.  I’m higher ranked than you.  Even for a hunter, you’re reckless!  And, apparently, only I can see that.   I‘m built for making these kind of judgment calls, while you—!”

“The only thing you’re built for is being afraid of <i>everything</i>!”

“If you had any concept of the danger we’re in, you’d be terrified!”

“Then tell me what I’m missing here!!”

Torani covered Errek’s mouth as he glanced into the main alley.  Their spat had caught the barrel fire group’s attention.  One by one, the bystanders lost interest.  Torani heaved a relieved sigh.

Then he shoved Errek into the wall and got to his feet.  Crossed his arms.  Turned away.  The gestures were reminiscent of Demeko’s worst trait: that impossible to please, perpetual disappointment.

Errek knew it was a front.  He scoffed.  “You’re too afraid to even talk.”

“No.  Errek.  I am afraid I’m going to lose it and hurt you.”

“You already ran me over with a car.”

“I made one mistake.  One!  I’m sorry.  Get over it!”  Torani ran his hands through his hair, then turned back around.  “What’s happening?  I didn’t raise you to be this.”

“No?  <i>Really</i>!?  Ha!  You’re kidding right?”

“Errek—”

“You pushed me to stop using your title.  Pushed me to talk when I thought I shouldn’t.  If there is <i>anything</i> you taught me, it was to be straight with you!  That the rank difference between us wasn’t supposed to matter…”  Errek fought to get on his feet.  To talk at eyelevel with Torani.  His legs failed him, and he slipped back down.  “You know, I used to think you wanted me to be your equal.  I guess not.”

“I did!”  He stepped back.  “I do.”  His eyes hardened.  “But clearly you’re not ready.”

“Why not?”

“I just told you.  You’re reckless.  You’re impatient.  You’re—”

“How about you admit that <i>you</i> don’t respect <i>me</i>?”

Silence.  Torani fidgeted with the end of his jacket.  His eyes focused inward.  He was about to end the conversation by clamming up.  Again.  <i>Goddammit</i>.

“Torani, talk to me.”

Torani’s dull gaze drifted back to Errek.  His slumped posture revealed deep weariness.  “Fine.”  Heaving a sigh, he lowered himself to the ground to sit cross-legged.  “It’s like this….”  His hands raised, then fell.  He looked away.  “None of this is going how I intended.  I thought when we left the nest, it wouldn’t matter anymore.  But it’s in me, Errek.  Leaving a place doesn’t take away the scars it left.  It just makes them more obvious.  You get that, don’t you?”

Not in the slightest.  He shrugged.  “Maybe?”

“Think about the workers.  If we had one of them here, you’d be pushing them around, wouldn’t you?  Be honest.”

“Honestly?”  He gave a disbelieving laugh.  “No.  I think I treated them worse when I was ascending than after I made it.  I didn’t see a point to pushing them around.  In fact, seeing the other hunters bullying Ru made me angry.  It made them look weak.  <i>It wasn’t fair</i>.”

“Then I guess you’re turning out better than I did.”

“Don’t end the conversation with shit like that.”

“Shit like what?”  The edge was back in his voice.

Errek grumbled a frustrated groan.  Why did every single word set Torani off!?  “Shit that makes it sound like you’re no good.  I don’t believe that.”

“This is the fact of matter:—!”  Torani’s hand hovered in the air.  He was back in his thoughts.  Fighting his personal demons.  Choosing his words.  Stalling for time to say something <i>adjacent</i> to the truth.

“Go on.”

“I’m not ready to let go of the hierarchy, Errek.  I thought I was.  But I guess I just wanted it to be different.  So, every time you talk back, interrupt me, say something snide… my instincts scream at me to put you in your place.  I want <i>you</i> to be my equal.  But I’m not ready to accept a <i>hunter</i> as my equal.  And you’re going to be a knight long before that changes.  I never felt much above the knights.  This will go away when you ascend.  So, until you do, I’d appreciate it if you would take it easy on me.”

“Will you at least admit it’s not fair?”

“It’s not fair, and it’s not what I wanted.  But it’s who I am.”  His posture crumpled inward.  “Just listen when I tell you to stop.  That’s all I’m asking for.  I <i>hate</i> fighting with you.”

“Yeah… I can do that.”  Errek rolled his shoulders.  “It’ll be easier now that I know you’re not <i>trying</i> to be a punk.”

“Not.  Helping.”

“Sorry.  So...” Errek straightened up.  “About those crutches.”

A deep sigh.

“Can we just take a look?  If it’s too dangerous, I’ll drop it.”

“You promise?”

“Yeah.  I don’t want to do anything stupid.  But I’m holding you back, and it’s driving me crazy!  If there’s any chance I can get my on feet faster, I want to try!”

“If you’ll trust my judgement, then all right.”

“Deal.”

“Let’s get you up.”  Torani turned around, so Errek could crawl onto his back.  After some struggle, Errek got his bandaged leg positioned to let him climb on painlessly.  Well, mostly painlessly.  Torani smoothly and slowly rose into standing position.  “You okay?”

“Yeah… Thanks.”

“Don’t worry about it.  And you’re not holding me back.”

“Sure.”

“Errek… I know it probably doesn’t look like it right now, but we’re still family.  You’d do the same for me if I was hurt.”  The confidence in his voice disappeared.  “Right?”

“Yes.  In a heartbeat.”
