Since they had already drawn attention to themselves, Torani nixed Errek’s suggestion to reach the warehouse through the fence gap.  Instead, they moved on and doubled back, approaching the building from behind.  The fence was unbroken there.  Getting Errek through it would be difficult.  Torani <i>kindly</i> offered to let Errek stay behind.

Errek declined.  He explained that watching Torani figure out an inside hunt would let them both learn at the same time.  In truth, he did not trust Torani to fairly judge the risk.  He wanted to see it for himself.

Errek won that battle.

Torani dug a hole under the fence and pulled Errek through.  The warehouse’s back wall was solid brick broken by occasional windows.  Like those in the front, the windows’ glass had been broken in and the frames boarded over.  Torani cruised past them to the left side wall.  No doors or windows.  The right side was no better.  The only entry point there was a crooked, roll-up garage door.  A locked one.

Torani sighed.  “I assume you know it’s a bad idea to barge in through the front door.”

“Yeah… Most of the time anyway…”

“This is most of the time.”

“I mean, if it’s just Eddie in there, it would work out...  Maybe we can look inside from the windows?”

“I can try.  Can I put you down while I look?”

“Sure.  But leave by one so I can help.”

Torani went to the nearest window and kneeled.  Errek pulled himself up using the window frame.  His arm rested there, so his weight balanced between it and his right leg.  That left him leaning hard into the building, but at least he was painlessly upright.

Torani looked uneasy.  “Are you sure you should be standing?  You don’t look stable.”

“I’ll sit down if I have too.  Don’t worry about me.”

“All right…”  Reluctantly, Torani moved on to the next window.

Errek peered through a gap in the window’s boards.  Darkness.  He moved down to the next gap.  Still dark.  The third one was no better.  Each opening on the window’s left side revealed nothing.  Frowning over the wasted effort, he leaned back to assess the right side.  Several more out-of-reach openings.  He hobble-hopped over to check them.

A large triangular gap revealed nothingness until Errek glanced down.  A gentle, orange glow danced across the floor underneath something.  A long, dark something that continued unbroken to the left and right as far as Errek could see.  In other words, the view into the warehouse was blocked.  Great.  Hopefully, Torani was having more luck.

Errek looked to his left.  Torani stood at the third window.  He seemed unimpressed.  What if all the windows were blocked?

Errek drummed his fingers on the wall.  He remembered that hole in the front door where the handle should have been.  Surely, they could look inside from there.  Assuming he could convince Torani to try.  Yeah.  That was not happening.

Sudden creaking startled Errek.  Torani was frozen in place with his arms outstretched at the window.  Slowly, he lowered something that whined.

Errek pushed away from the window to see what on earth Torani was doing.  A board shaped gap appeared in Torani’s window.  Torani reached for another board, jiggling it until it came loose on one side.  He lowered the free end to the ground, widening the opening.

A grin spread across Errek’s face.  He reached for the boards blocking his own window.  As he tested each one, the smile faded.  No give.  They were all solidly fixed to the wall.  Whatever.  Torani had found a way in.  That was all that mattered.  

Errek hopped the torturous trip to Torani’s side.  By the time he arrived, Torani was halfway through the window.  “I see you found a way in.”

“Errek?”  Torani startled.  Shook his head.  “You should have waited.  I would have gotten you.”  Ducking under the frame, “Stay here.  I’ll be back in a few minutes.”  He walked into the darkness.

Leaning through the window, Errek watched him go.  Torani continued left until he turned out of sight.  Errek glared straight ahead at the long thing obstructing his view.  What was it?  Not a wall.  He squinted.  Oh.  Shelving racks.  He supposed that made sense.

The flicking glow under the lowest shelf recaptured his focus.  Fire created that light.  So, where was the fire?  Errek closed his eyes and listened.

Muffled crackling.  It was distant.  A brief cough echoed over it.  No other signs of life.  The food was far from the back wall.  Quiet noises would go unnoticed.  He could get inside.

Except—he glanced down at his leg.  How was he supposed to get <i>that</i> through the window without bending it?  The only option was to worm his way through.  Placing both hands on the sill, he balanced on his belly.  He dragged his body forward.

Once his hips were through, he moved his hands to the ground.  Cautiously, he rotated, so his injured leg rested on his less-bad leg.  Hopefully, that would support it.  His hands walked forward until he bumped into the rack.  His calf was on the sill.  He needed more room to clear the window.  Now what?

Lowering his side to the ground, he curled forward.  That created few inches behind him.  He hated the shushing sound as he slowly slid his body backwards on the smooth concrete.  When his ankle reached the sill’s edge, he turned himself parallel with the alley.  Finally free.  Setting his legs down was a relief.  As he lay there, he looked under the lowest shelf.

Three racks separated Errek from an empty space.  That space ended in a railing that opened up in the middle for some reason.  Maybe that was a downward ramp?  The fire was nowhere in sight, but its light clearly came from behind the railing.  There had to be a lower floor.

He scanned his alley’s right end.  There was an opening to a new corridor.  Maybe he could get a better view from there.  He crawled forward on his hands and one functional knee.  Turning at the bend, he continued until he reached the third rack.

The entry door was straight ahead.  It was unlikely anyone standing there would see Errek in the dark, but it was not a chance he was willing to take.  He moved into the side alley behind the last rack.  Pushing aside a box, he peeked through the second shelf.

The down ramp was clear now.  It led to loading docks.  Several mattresses had been laid out there with tattered blankets and moth-eaten pillows.  Three bedding lumps were human shaped.  Others were unclear.

Halfway down the ramp, a silhouette leaned against the railing.  Another figure sat, warming her hands by a cinder block fireplace.  Across from her, Eddie skimmed his newspaper.

“Come on, Eddie!  Haven’t you found it yet?” The man on the ramp pressed.

“I’m looking, I’m looking.”  Eddie waved his hand dismissively.  “They report about a bunch of stuff nobody with sense gives a damn about before they get to the good bits… and there we are…”  Expectant silence as he read the article to himself.  He turned the page.  His eyes traveled halfway down the column.  Clicking his tongue, he shook his head.

“What?  How did Fred Jr. do?”

“You know, I really thought it would be Osmand.  He was so close too…”

“What about Freddie!?”

Eddie roughly put the paper down.  “8th place.”

“No!  I was sure my boy had this!”

The woman snorted.  “That’s what you get for picking a horse sharing <i>your</i> name.”

“That beautiful beast was destined for greatness, Dottie!  Which glue factory stole first from my boy!?”

“You mean which <i>seven</i> glue factories?” Eddie rolled his eyes.

Dottie tsked.  “Good thing you don’t have any money, Freddie.  You’d be broke on that excuse for a horse if you did.”

Freddie rolled his shoulders.  “He’ll win next year.”

“It would be less of a miracle if my leg grew back.”  Eddie folded up the newspaper and tossed it aside.  “You know, back in the trenches—”

A communal groan.  Freddie buried his head in his hands.  “Oh, don’t start that again!”

“BACK IN THE TRENCHES—”

Dottie thew her hat at Eddie.  It hit him square in the face.  Freddie fell into raucous cackling that robbed him of his breath.  Amid the wheezing, Eddie gave up on his story.  He grumbled something inaudible.  Dottie snorted.

A tapping on the metal shelves pulled Errek from the scene.  Torani had settled in next to him.  “I told you to wait.”

“Sorry.  I just wanted to see.”

A huff.  He nodded at the group in the loading dock.  “So what do you think?  Safe or not.”

“It’s… There’s too many of them.”

“I’m glad you agree.  That said…”  He pointed up.  “See the cat walk?”

Errek scanned the upper perimeter.  Sure enough, a metal balcony lined three sides of the warehouse.  The left side gave way to second floor over the shelving racks.  Two doors caught his eye.  “I think I see rooms up there.”

“It doesn’t look like anyone’s been in them for a long time.  One has no windows and the lock still works.  There’s furniture we can move in front of the door to make sure no one breaks in.”

“Does that mean you’re thinking about staying here?”

Torani stared at the food.  “I suppose I am.  And I have an idea for how to hunt in here.  I want to try.”

“Seriously?!  I can’t wait to see!”

“If I do it right, you won’t <i>see</i> anything.”  Torani stood.  “Stay here.  If this goes south, the fastest way out is the front door.”  As he walked deeper into the warehouse, he added, “And be patient.”

Errek refocused on the loading docks.  The hunt’s excitement rising in him.  Then falling.  He wanted to be the one to do the takedown.  Not a passive observer.  Cursed legs!  Always holding him back.

The warehouse returned to near silence.  The occasional short conversation breached the fire’s crackling.  By midnight, most of the food had checked into bed.  Eventually, the fire died down.  Only Freddie remained awake.  Pacing along the railing.  Muttering about his losing horse.

Errek found himself slumped over the shelf, struggling to keep his eyes open.  Boredom ate him alive.  Perhaps he had been wrong to trust Torani had it in him to hunt in here.  What was Torani even doing?  What was he waiting for?  Errek pictured him hiding in a corner somewhere, too afraid to make a move.  To try something new.  Never trust a prince to do a hunter’s job.

A dropped nail’s metallic tinkling echoed through the warehouse.  Errek held his breath as he watched Freddie.  He had heard it too.  Freddie took a few steps towards the shelves.  He stopped.  Tucking his hands into his pockets, he shrugged and turned back around.  Errek exhaled.  Whatever mistake Torani had made was— Three more nails clattered onto the floor.

Errek glared at the darkness.  <i>What are you doing, Torani!?</i>  This time, Freddie approached an alleyway to look between the racks.  Another nail dropped.  Freddie quick walked forward, disappearing behind the shelves.

Errek sat back.  What could he do?  How could he help?  He fought his way onto his feet.  Too late.

A shuffling of steps.  A sliding, like a box on a shelf had been shoved aside.  Then nothing.

Panicked, Errek strained his ears for any hint of Freddie or Torani.  His own heartbeat and breathing covered everything.  Now what!?  Hopping through the warehouse would be too noisy.  Maybe he needed to get back down and crawl?  That would be quiet, right?  He had to careful not break the silence!

His brow furrowed.  <i>It was silent</i>.

No screaming.  No fighting.  The food remained asleep and unaware.  Maybe Torani had handled himself just fine?  Movement drew Errek’s attention upwards.  Torani ascended a ladder to the catwalk.  Freddie’s still body hung over his shoulders.

Errek nodded slowly.  The noise had been intentional.  A lure to draw Freddie away.  Move him out of sight.  Into a trap.  And, for Errek, it represented a shiny, new hunting technique.  He filed that brilliant idea away for later.  Perhaps he had misjudged Torani’s capabilities.
