No one was surprised by Freddie’s unexpected absence.  He had always been a wild card.  Disappearing for upwards of a week was nothing new for him.

Eddie’s departure was noticed.  He was the steady sort.  The type to stick to his schedule and habits.  That also meant that if anyone in the warehouse group had a chance at something better, it was him.  They hoped for the best.

No one batted an eye when the new kid, Connor, stopped coming in.  Maybe he got tired of street life.  Afterall, everyone had told him to go home.

Fear crept in when Dottie’s spot by the fire became vacant.  She was a lifelong denizen of back alleys and abandoned buildings.  She had broken into the warehouse.  Claimed it as her kingdom.  As the gatekeeper, their matriarch, she had decided who could join and who to kick out.  Now, she was gone.

The remaining stragglers bickered over who was next in line to lead.  One faction wanted wait for Eddie to come back.  The other thought Sarah was a better choice.  She could step more easily into Dottie’s shoes.

When Sarah missed the meeting finalize the decision, her supporters jumped ship.  The poor souls holding out for Eddie’s return lasted a few more nights.

A second troupe tried to occupy the warehouse a week later.  They were consumed in three days.  Since then, the place had been left in peace.

Too much peace.  Fewer targets loitered in the nearby streets.  Torani was out longer each night as he pushed their hunting grounds’ boundaries.

And that suited Errek just fine.  It gave him a break from Torani’s pacing steps echoing on wood floor of their hideout.  From the ever-worsening whines Torani made in his sleep when he accidently dosed off.  The panicked awakenings that inevitably followed.  The downcast stares, signaling he refused to talk about it.  For now, Errek was willing to let it go.

He had other concerns: crossing the room to reach the mattress without collapsing.  Wiping sweat from his brow, he leaned heavily on a chair back.  Otherwise, he was freestanding.  The crutches had been left by the bed.  For the first week, they had been a godsend.  Now, he hated the damn things.

Relying on them left Errek confined to the room.  Worse yet, Torani protested when Errek tried to walk without them.  Even after the splint came off.  Whatever.  Torani was out now.  What he did not know would not hurt him.  Only, Errek had to get back to bed to maintain Torani’s ignorance.

Cautiously, he equalized his weight across his legs.  That part was painless.  His left leg had remained strong.  In fact, it could support him fully.  That was always how he stood most comfortably.

The problem was flexing his ankle.  He suspected there was a secondary injury there.  That, in all the concern about main breaks, a smaller fracture had been missed.  Remained out of alignment.  Had healed that way.  Would always cause him pain.  Another problem for later.

Keeping the left leg rigidly straight, Errek took a fluid step with his right.  He his left knee slightly and stiffly swung it forward.   Landing his foot was the hardest part.  It took meticulous positioning.  Patience.  Grit to swallow down the inevitable twinge as his heel rolled ever so slightly.  He exhaled.  One step down.  Another 15 to go.

As he prepared for the next one, clomping footsteps echoed off the metal ladder.  Errek swore.  With his mouth clenched shut, he hobbled back.  Collapsed onto the mattress.  Curled around his leg.  Tried to squeeze the pain out of existence.

When the door opened, Errek flopped onto his back.  His hands nonchalantly tucked behind his head.  He was in too much pain to look bored, but mild frustration was doable.  And honest.  The act was short-lived.  His expression shifted to disgust as a skinny teen girl entered.

Torani walked in behind her and guided her to the mattress.  He coaxed her to sit next to Errek.  Her eyes were glossy.  Contented.

With reluctant diligence, Errek placed a hand on her waist to take over the electrical pulsing.  Torani pulled the chair closer.  He sat and stared as if Errek were a fishtank full of bloated goldfish.

Trying to ignore his audience, Errek spared the girl another glance.  He licked his teeth.  After a lifetime of perpetual hunger, he was finally sated.  Glutted, in fact.  The idea of eating turned his stomach.  Worse yet, the night was still young.  Torani might seek another victim after disposing this one.

And, sure, Errek, understood how they got here.  He wanted to reach knight as badly as Torani pushed for it.  But would force feeding him help?  Torani insisted he saw a difference.  That Errek looked taller.  Thicker.  More muscular.  Errek did not see it.  All he saw was a wasted hunt invading in his space.

Torani fidgeted.  “You’re not eating.”

Errek shrugged.  He shifted his hold on the girl from pleasure to calm.  “So, what did he do to get <i>you</i> in here?”

“Don’t talk to the food.”

The girl’s heartrate rose.

For a moment, Errek was interested.  That blip of fear stimulated his hunting instincts.  But she was already caught.  There was no hunt here.  There was only passive meat.  “What difference does it make?  It’s not like she’s going anywhere.”

Another wave of panic shocked through her, dissolving just as quickly.

“If for no other reason, it’s needlessly cruel.  You might give her hope.”

“It’s kinda fun though.”

“<i>Really</i>?  Is this fairer than pushing around a worker?”

“Workers don’t fight back.  The food can.”

Torani glared.

“I’m a hunter.  What do you want from me?”  Errek sat up.  “Oh, that’s right.  You want me to be a good dog.  Here’s your kibbles.  Eat up, Rover.”

“What?!”

Before Torani could launch into an indignant monologue, Errek moved his hand to the girl’s wrist.  “Stand up for me.”  She complied.  Her body shook so hard that she was unsteady on her feet.  She glanced at the door.  <i>The still open door.</i>  Interesting.

“Errek, what are you doing?”

Errek squeezed the girl’s wrist.  “You’re in luck.  I’m not hungry.  Get out of here.”  He released her.  She stepped back, still dazed.  Torani leaped to his feet.  His chair fell back.  Its clattering roused her.  She bolted out the door.

“THE HELL!”  Torani shot after her.  Pounding steps on the grated flooring.  A curt scream.  Dragging.  Errek closed his eyes and imagined that <i>he</i> was the one taking action.  He was the cat watching its mouse squirm away.  Recapturing it.  Releasing it.  And again.  And a—

Coughing out a breath as something hit his chest.  Errek opened his eyes.  The girl was draped across his lap.  Torani had thrown her at him.  She scrambled across the mattress as Torani locked the door.  He pulled a heavy, metal file cabinet in front of it.  When he turned to face Errek, he was seething.

Errek glanced at the girl.  “I’d say try the window, but we don’t have one.  Good luck finding another way—”

Torani lifted Errek up by his shirt collar.  “What are you trying to do!?”

“Entertain myself.”  His feet dragged limply on the ground.  Carefully, he set them straight.  Stood with his hands in his pockets.

“Stop playing with the food and eat!”

“Did you miss the part where I said, ‘I’m not hungry?’”

Scraping metal on wood.  Errek and Torani looked to the door.  The girl desperately tried to push the file cabinet back.  Torani released Errek and stormed over to her.  She pushed more valiantly.

Crackling light filled Torani’s hand.  He slammed his palm on the cabinet.  The girl jolted away.  Seizing stiffly.  Falling onto her back with a heavy thud.  Her hands continued to tremor as her unseeing eyes stared at the ceiling.

Errek’s eyebrows raised as he whistled.  “<i>Meow</i>.  When do I learn to do <i>that</i>?”

“When you become a knight!”  Torani kicked the file cabinet, denting it.  “Why are you like this?  What am I supposed to do with you?!”

“Let me hunt for myself.  When I’m, you know, <i>actually hungry</i>.”

Torani sat down on the file cabinet.  Crossed his legs.  Laced his fingers together.  “And how do you intend to do that while…”

Masking the pain, Errek walked the room’s length and back.  He came to an excruciating, clipped stop.  “I’m doing better than you think I am.”

“So… you can run?  You can climb?  You can handle yourself when things go wrong?”

“Aren’t you going to insist on hunting with me?”

Torani sighed.

“Come on!”  Errek threw his hands in the air.  “I’m trapped here while you’re overhunting.  Seriously, have you thought this through?  One body feeds a hand of hunters-full-a-royals.  And some nights you bring back two!  You’ve seen the waste!  And I’ve seen <i>you</i> not eating!  You’re not hungry either!”

“It’s not that I’m not hungry!”

“Then why aren’t you eating?”

“Th-this isn’t about <i>me</i>—”

Errek scoffed.  Torani’s eyes darkened.  With a groan, Errek rubbed his forehead.  “I wasn’t trying to interrupt.”

Rising to his feet, Torani closed the distance between them.  Stopped.  He looked Errek up and down.  Studying… something.  Or nothing?  His hand shot out of nowhere.  Shoved just enough to make Errek stumble.  Errek tried to catch himself on his left leg.  A hissing pain as it collapsed under him.  

Torani caught Errek before he hit the ground.  Half dragged him to the mattress.  Set him down.  Shaking his head, “I want to say you’re in worse shape than you think you are… but I think you know exactly how bad it is.  That you’re <i>lying</i> about it.”

“Where do you think I learned to do that?”

“Drop it, Errek.”

“Just—!  You know this isn’t working.  Right?”

No response.
  
“<i>Right!?</i>”

“I see you’re unhappy.  Yes.”

“Then throw me a bone here!  Let me hunt with you.”

Torani drifted away from the mattress towards the girl.  He waved his hand over her face.  Her only response was to blink rapidly as shadow fell over her eyes.

“Torani, please.”

“Do you have the discipline to let me handle the parts you can’t?”

“If you let me do everything else, yeah.”

A huff.  Torani scooped up the girl and laid her on the mattress.  “We’ll go together the next time you’re hungry.”

“THANK YOU.”  A relieved relief.  A well-earned victory.

“But tonight, I want you to eat what you can.”

Errek cringed.

“She’s already here.  We can’t let her go.”

Best to let Torani win this one.  He might change his mind otherwise.  “I guess…” 

After a long stretch, Errek lazily turned to the girl.  She was just as unappetizing as before.  There was no way he could choke down her meat.  He took her wrist and sank his teeth in.  Blood had no potency on a full stomach.  At least its heat still felt good.

When he had gulped down what he could, Errek dropped her limp, pale wrist.  The blood kept flowing.  She kept breathing.  “That’s the best I can do.”  He shrugged, waiting for Torani’s protest.

None came.  Torani heaved the girl over his shoulder and shuffled towards the door.

“She’s still alive, you know?”

“I noticed.”  Torani shoved the file cabinet back with his leg.

“You’re not going to eat?”

“It’s easier to carry an intact body.”  The door opened.

“You promise you’ll eat when you find a place to dump her?”

“Sure.”  The door closed.

Errek’s shoulders sank.  Torani would come back starving.

Shaking his head, Errek rose to his feet.  If nothing else, the fresh blood had eased his aching leg.  He took a step and choked on the pain.  No dice.  He had pushed the injury too far earlier.  Now what?  The crutches leered at him.  A sigh.  Fine.  Maybe using <i>one</i> crutch was acceptable.
