Errek breathed in the still night air.  Cool.  Crisp.  Infused with tangy sweat.  That perfume never escaped the streets.  Twining between buildings, it drew him to the city’s heart.  Away from dark corners.  Out of the side alleys.  Straight into—

Pulled back from lamplight.  Stumbling, he caught his weight on the singular crutch he had begrudgingly brought with him.

“You don’t need to go that far.”

Turning to Torani, Errek leveled his tone.  “It’s been slim pickings so far.  I have to go <i>somewhere</i>.”

“Don’t pretend you don’t know where you’re headed.”

“When Kordi took me out, we went to the town center to scope out targets.”

“The city is a different beast.  Stick to the alleys.”

“All right.”  Errek shrugged.  “I guess I’m not so hungry that I can’t skip a meal.”  The crutch clacked forward three paces.  Errek only heard that and his own footsteps.  Torani had remained in place.  Gotcha.  “You coming?”

Torani’s brow furrowed.  He chewed his lip.  His tense shoulders drooped.  “Okay, maybe we do need to look somewhere else.  But not downtown.”

An opening.  “There’s a neighborhood a few blocks back.  Quiet.  Small houses.  Looks promising.”

“And neither of us know how to break into a house.”

“Now’s a good time to learn.”  Errek’s impish smile painfully contrasted Torani’s one-sided frown.  “Let’s just take a look.”

Torani crossed his arms.  Never a good sign.

“My instincts are telling me this is the way to go.”  A blatant lie.  His instincts had no opinion on the matter.  Honestly, they were silent these nights.

A subtle nod.  “Okay.  We’ll look.”

Hobbling ahead, Errek kept his smug grin concealed.  Asking for too much and compromising down to something reasonable worked wonders.  Errek got what he wanted.  Torani got to pretend he was in control.  And as long as Torani never figured out the game, they would stay on good terms.

Errek guessed Serana would have seen through the ruse instantly.  That she would have been tickled by it.  His expression faded.  Odd how much he thought about her lately.  Especially when Torani had said nothing about her in weeks.  <i>Especially</i> when she was the reason why Torani wanted Errek to ascend.

Problems to brood over later.  The neighborhood was ahead.  The hunt was on.

handing the crutch to Torani, Errek exited the alley.  Strolling ahead on the main street, he nonchalantly limped through lamplight.  The vision of a young man returning home after a night on the town.  Harmless.  Ordinary.  The only oddity was that he was alone on the streets.  But someone had to be the last to leave the speakeasy.

If noticed, his casual appraisal of the houses would be seen as him thinking about the future.  About owning his first home.  Surely, he was not sizing up the properties.  Counting the cars parked along the street.  Analyzing the few lit windows.  Keeping track of entries, exits, and secluded spots where his stalking would be hidden.

No.  Not in this neighborhood.  They were not rich enough to invite that kind of crime nor poor enough to be the seat of it.

Errek paused when he saw <i>the one</i>.  A single-story house framed by distant mountains.  There was no car parked on the roadside, but a shadowy figure darkened a lit window.  It was hard to see much else.  The front yard was framed by bushes.  He thought he heard something though.  Music?  Maybe the window was open.

<I>ALERT</I>.

Their agreed upon huddle-up clickpulse.  Errek walked into the tree line.  “Yeah?”

“Don’t gawk for so long.  Especially when you’re directly under a lamp.”
  
“Mhm, gotcha.   But I think that’s the one.”

“The yellow one?”

“Yeah.”

“The light’s on.”

“I know.  I’m not going in.  I’m going to see if I can get the food to come out.  Look at the yard.  There’s plenty of cover.”

Torani tilted his head.  “I suppose…”  A nod as he leaned Errek’s crutch against a tree.  “We’ll give it a shot.”  He bolted further into the tree line.  In a minute, he would come back around to approach the house from behind.

Errek looked down at his legs.  If only he could follow.  He limped back to the main road.  Towards the house.  Walking as if he belonged there.  A late, but expected, guest.  And if the homeowner looked out the window, Errek would remain unseen from this angle.  He slipped around a break in the bushes to enter the yard.  Or rather, garden.

The inside perimeter was lined with flower beds.  Beyond them, there was a short white gravel strip, a foot of grass, another gravel strip, and then the porch.  The porch was tiled in orange, yellow, and brown diamonds.

The sharp precision in that geometric tiling was disrupted by dark splotches of potting soil.  Dozens of plants poured over their clay pots’ rims.  Errek riffled his fingers through the white pebble line until he found a larger, heavier chunk.

<I>ALERT</I>.

Errek looked up.  Torani was crouched in the opposite corner.  Dug in and half covered by bushes, he looked like a hunkered down toad.  Errek crept to his side.  “What?”

Torani pointed to the window.  Errek edged further into the garden to get a better look.  A woman sat at her kitchen table with her back to them.  She was hard at work on something as ragtime tunes tumbled out of a phonograph on a counter.  Nothing seemed amiss.  Errek shrugged at Torani.

“Woman don’t usually live alone.  What if her man is in the other room?”

“There’s two of us.”

“What if there’s three of them?”

“In <i>this</i> house?”

“It’s possible.”

Errek huffed.  “It’s also possible that, no matter how careful we are, we’ll end up in pickle due pure bad luck.  At some point, you have to accept the risks and try something.”

“I’m not telling you to stop.   I’m telling you to consider what might <i>reasonably</i> go wrong.  That way, you’re prepared for it.”

 “I’m prepared.”  Errek tossed his stone up and caught it.  “Anything else?”

“I wish you weren’t so intent on learning things the hard way.”

“What else that might ‘reasonably’ go wrong?”

“…Nothing.”

Errek gave Torani two frustrated thumbs up and crawled under the window.  He settled with his back to the wall.  That put him directly in front of his target: the largest flowerpot.  He threw the stone at it, cracking the clay.  Ricocheting.  Skittering noisily across the porch.

Chairs legs scraped against linoleum flooring.  Fingers peeked over the windowsill.  A head popped out to investigate.  Errek’s hands shot up to the woman’s neck.  Too easy.  Next would come the simple order to get her outside.  Unless… was that really the best plan?

“Hey Doll, what’s your name?”

“<I>ERREK!</I>”  Torani’s voice strangled itself through grit teeth.

“It’s Lucille…”

“Well, Lucille, are you home alone tonight?”

“Yeah.”

Errek shot Torani a smug glance.  So much for the house being stuffed with food.  “Do me a favor and let me inside, all right?  There’s a chill out here, and I’d love to warm up for a minute.”

As Errek stood up, Torani appeared at his side.  “The hell are you doing?!”

“It’s safer to eat inside than out here.”

“That’s not…”

Errek gently moved Lucille aside.  He pushed his top half through the window.  “Torani, give me a hand with my bad leg, would you?”  He looked back to Lucille.  “And you help me stay upright.”

“I can’t believe this…”  Nonetheless, Torani roughly lifted Errek’s legs and shoved him through.

Once he was steady again, Errek wrapped his arm around Lucille’s waist and scanned the kitchen.  Well-lit and clean.  The walls were beige stripes with pops of yellow flowers.  Behind the phonograph sat a pile of drying dishes.  Another stack of dirty ones was hidden beyond it.

A vase of garden flower clippings adorned the two-chaired table.  A worn book and an assortment of colored pens lay scattered over the lacy tablecloth.  In the silent moment when a song ended, Errek admired the birds painted onto a ticking wall clock.  A perfect microcosm of the food’s existence.  He so loved the useless but wonderful details they added to everything.

When the next tune started up, he said, “This is a nice place.  Cozy.”

“Thank y—”

Torani shoved past Lucille on his way through the window.  He slammed it shut and locked it.  Glaring at Errek, he marched deeper into the house.  Shrugging, Errek reached for the book on the table.

Lucille’s hand limply covered his.  “You can’t have that.”

“Why not?”

“It’s my journal.  It’s private.”

“Well, don’t worry about it.  It’s not like I can read.”  The lights shut off.  Errek frowned at the ceiling lamp.

“Get away from the window.”  Torani leaned against the entryway to a sitting room.

“All right, all right.  I’m coming.”  He pulled Lucille.  “You too.”

“Stop.  Talking.  To the food.”

Errek electrically smothered Lucille’s jolt of panic.  “Shh, ignore him.  He gets grumpy.”  On his way past Torani, he mouthed, “Trust me.”  That seemed to throw Torani.  He remained at the dark room’s threshold while Errek settled on the couch with Lucille.  Moving his hand to hers, he laced their fingers together.  “I was wondering if you could tell me what’s been going on in the city lately.”

She relaxed at the opportunity for small talk.  “Well, there’s always something going on.  Church events, new buildings… Oh, if you’re new in town you must see the Cheyenne Mountain Zoo!  It’s beautiful.  I went there with—"

“Lucille, I was more thinking along the lines of… unfortunate events.  Perhaps some people have gone missing?”

“Oh, yes!  That’s been all over the <i>Gazette</i>!  I read just yesterday they found a poor soul torn to shreds.  Positively dreadful!”

Errek glanced at Torani.  He looked uncomfortable.  “I don’t suppose you could read it to me?”

“I… should still have it.”  Lucille leaned over the couch’s arm to finger through a basket of magazines and newspapers.  “I’ll need some light though…”  Torani drifted over to turn on a floor lamp as she looked.  “Here it is.”  She flattened the paper over her knees.  Her index finger traced the lines as she read.

“This morning, local business owner Todd Hall made a shocking—”

Errek grabbed her hand.  “Start over.  Slow down.”

“All right…  This morning, local business—”

Errek slid her finger back to the start.  “SLOWER.”

Torani clicked his tongue.  “You’re not trying to learn to read, are you?”

“So what if I am?”

Torani looked to Lucille.  “How long does it take to learn?”

She laughed nervously.  “It could take years.”

Errek cringed.  “Okay, okay.  I get it.  Just read, Doll.”

“This morning, local business owner Todd Hall made a shocking discovery off Manitou Blvd:  the dismembered body of Walt Stewart.  Police say it is unclear whether the grisly scene was the result of scavengers or foul play.

“Stewart, a barber, failed to open his shop last Tuesday morning.  This immediately aroused suspicion in his scheduled clients, who knew him to be reliable.   By Wednesday evening, Stewart and his wife were added to the list of missing persons.  A list that now totals over 40—”

“40!?”  Torani shook his head in disbelief.  “That can’t be on me!  I picked people I was sure no one would miss.  I mean… maybe a few were riskier… But 40?  I wasn’t that sloppy…”

Errek put all his strength into suppressing Lucille’s fear.  “Keep.  Reading.”

“H-Hall stumbled onto Stewart while walking to work.  The sounds of coyotes fighting off Manitou Blvd caught his attention.  Curious, he went to see what the commotion was about.  He found the scavengers fighting over Stewart’s body.  Fearing for his common man’s safety, Hall bravely jumped into action, making a “grand racket” to scare the beasts off.

“Unfortunately, Hall discovered he was too late to help.  Stewart was clearly deceased, with several body parts missing.  Hall ran to the road and hailed a passing car for help.  He then guarded the scene from further disruption until the police arrived.
 
“While it is clear the coyotes are partially responsible for Stewart’s state, the police believe other animals may have visited the body.  Impressions left at the scene suggest that Stewart was dragged some distance, perhaps by a grizzly bear or mountain lion.  A search conducted on the nearby fields uncovered a depression that may be a shallow grave.  Recent rain obscured the ground, so it is hard to know how or when the depression was made.

“While nothing is certain, the police view Stewart’s death as suspicious.  They now fear for the safety of the other missing persons.  The department is overwhelmed and baffled.  Though they are doing their best to handle this uptick in crime, they lack the resources to investigate all cases.  Sources say the mayor is considering asking the Bureau of Investigation to assist.  An unprecedented move that would likely—”

“That’s enough.”  Torani took the newspaper from Lucille’s lap.  “How many people read this?”

“The <i>Gazette</i>?  A lot of folks.  Though, it’s not the only newspaper in town.”

Errek cut in.  “I think it’s fair to assume they’re all covering this.”

Turning away, Torani crumpled up the newspaper and threw it aside.  “We’ll move.  Go west.  <i>Very</i> west…”

“Torani, are you okay?”  A stupid question Errek knew the answer to.  The point was to keep Torani from imploding into silence.

A nervous chuckle.  Torani shook his head.  “And here I keep saying <i>you’re</i> not careful enough.  I can’t believe this.  I can’t believe the mess I’ve made.  That I didn’t even know I’d done it…  That—I—”  He rubbed his face with his hands.  “We’ll move.  It’ll be fine.”

“Yeah.  It will.”  Errek turned to Lucille.  “Were you planning to go anywhere or see anyone tomorrow?”

She looked up, considering.  “No, I don’t think so.  Tomorrow’s Saturday.  The shop’s closed on Saturdays.”

Errek doubled the electrical pressure on her.  “Torani, take first choice.”

“I’m not hungry.  Go ahead.”

“You’re starving.  That’s why you’re making mistakes.  Eat.”

“<i>Do not give me orders</i>.”

“Okay.  I’ll just tell you what <i>I’m</i> going to do then.”  Errek stood.  “I’m going to walk away from Lucille and sleep into her bed until tomorrow.”  Cutting off the pulses, he scraped his nails deep across her wrist and arm.  Breaking the skin.  Rousing her.

“You’re what?” Torani spun on his heels.  Lucille was already scrambling to her feet.  A scream caught in her throat as a whimper.  She dashed past Torani.  Into the kitchen.  Pulled open a drawer.  Reached for a knife.  <I>FREEZE</I>.  She jolted to a stop.

Torani yanked her back by the wrist.  Pinned her limp form against the wall.  Hesitated.  A swath of red on his hand transfixed him.  He licked it clean.  His gaze shifted to the blood flowing from Lucille’s cuts.  He went for them.

Errek nodded.  Finally, Torani would eat his share.  There would only be hunter scraps left after that.  The idea of eating lesser cuts turned Errek’s stomach.  But, if Torani pushed for it, Errek could choke it down.  Otherwise, Torani might use Errek’s refusal as an excuse to starve himself again.

Standing with a stretch, Errek scanned the two doors on the left wall.  He tried the first one.  Grinned.  There was the bed he was hoping for.  He wandered in and collapsed onto it.

A satisfied groan murmured out of him.  No jabbing springs.  Fresh, clean sheets.  Marshmallow soft pillows.  The busted mattress in the warehouse had nothing on this pocket of heaven.  He curled around a pillow and nestled in to sleep.

“All right—”

Torani’s voice startled Errek.  He rolled over to find the failed prince impatiently leaning on the door frame.  Arms crossed, of course.

“—Eat your fill.  Then we’re leaving.”

“I’ll eat in a bit.  Come try the bed out.  It’s incredible.”

“We don’t have time.  Come on.”  Torani entered the room and reached for Errek’s shoulder.

Errek shot up, scooting away.  “What’s the rush?”

“Don’t you remember what happened at initiation?  What that one man did to Zehra and Rotero and…  The food’s hunters live in the city.  I’m sure they read newspapers.  They’re already looking for us.”

“They’re not looking here.  There’s no reason to.”

“We need to go.”

“Okay, fine.  But where?  Maybe you should scout ahead and—”

“NO.  Get up.”

“Torani, it’s safe here right now.”

“Were you this unreasonable when Kordi took you out!?”

U<i>nreasonable.</i>  The word sat quietly in Errek’s mouth like fetid jell-o.  Since when was compromising unreasonable?  “What does Kordi have to do with anything?”

Torani rested his hands on the bed and leaned forward.  “Get up, or I’ll drag you out.”

Swallowing a growl, Errek remembered his promise to go easy on Torani.  Torani’s fear was justified, if misguided.  The request to leave was fair.  Except Errek’s instincts finally spoke up.  And, for the first time ever, they told him to do what he wanted: <i>stand your ground</i>.

“No.”

Torani snagged Errek’s arm.  Errek tore free.  Hissed.  Torani’s lips peeled back to snarl.  Errek went on the attack.  Lunging forward with snapping jaws.

Torani side-stepped.  Errek tumbled off the bed.  Crumpled onto the ground.  Felt a hand touch his neck.  Scrambling to get away.  Guilt and shame paralyzed him.  Kept him flat in submission.

What the hell had he been thinking?  Defying a royal?  And a higher royal at that!  The one he relied on.  His <i>only</i> family.  The one he was supposed to serve.  And, sure, that last bit left a bitter taste, but it was the truth.  His trembling voice muttered, “I’m-sorry-I’m-so-sorry.”

“Just get up.”

Errek fought his quivering muscles to rise to his feet.  Torani eased the pulses but kept his hand in place.  As he straightened, Errek realized his left leg ached.  It would not hold his weight.  A good excuse to lean right.  Away from Torani.

“Come on.”  Torani gently pressed Errek to walk forward.  Errek complied with a heavy limp.  By the third step he felt better.  He was doing his duty.  Pleasing his royal.  Warmth spread through him.  Prickling his skin.  Driving out the pain.  The humiliation.  The anger.  The—

“DON’T FORCE ME TO LIKE THIS!”

Torani’s hand startled back.  Errek stumbled.  Too much weight on the bad leg.  He caught himself on a bedpost.   He chocked the words out, “If you’re going to force me to behave, then fine.  But don’t make me like it!”

“I-I… I didn’t mean to do that.”  Torani stepped back.  “I didn’t <i>want</i> to do that.  I wasn’t even thinking...”  The pain in his expression was infuriating.

“You need to make a decision:  Either you want me to be your equal, and you’ll deal with it when I disagree with you.  Otherwise, quit the act!  Just give me orders and stop playing nice.  <i>I’ll</i> learn to<i> </i>deal with it.”

“I don’t want that.”

“Am I your equal or not?”

Torani shuffled over to the bed and sat down.  Resting his forehead in his hands, he cleared his throat.  “How can I see you as my equal?  Even if I put aside the hierarchy, I don’t trust your judgement.  You don’t make good decisions.”

“You think that <i>because</i> I’m lower ranked.”

“No, it’s because you only consider <i>right now</i>.  You don’t think about the future.  About consequences.  You only care about what <i>you</i> want!”

“I care about you too.  But what you want is ridiculous!”

“You don’t trust my judgement?”

“I don’t trust <i>you</i>.”

“You don’t—?  After everything I’ve done for you!?  The things I gave up.  What I did to protect you!”

Errek pinched the bridge of his nose.  “Let’s talk about the real problem: I can’t work with you.  Not when you hide everything from me.  And you can’t work with me when you don’t listen.”

“Just tell me why <i>this</i>”—he jabbed the bed—“is worth fighting me over!”

“Torani, neither of us has slept in weeks.  Your nightmares keep waking us up.  At least I catch naps when you go out hunting.  <i>You are exhausted</i>.  Maybe if you were someplace comfortable, you’d sleep through the day.  I want that for you.”

Weakly, “Don’t pretend this is about me.”

“Stop pretending you’re fine!  I’m worried about you!  I want you to eat.  I want you to sleep.  I want you take care of yourself!  But that’s not happening.  So, I’m trying to take care of you.”

“That’s not…”  Torani shook his head.  “I can’t sleep here.  I’ll stay awake, worrying we’ll be found.”

“Okay.  Fine.  We’ll go then.” Errek straightened up.

Torani’s brow furrowed.  “You’ll go?  That easy?”

“Yeah.  That easy.  There’s no point in staying if it won’t help you.”  Shaking his head, “You know, if you’d talk to me <i>and listen</i>, everything would be easier.”  He held out a hand to help Torani up.

Torani breathed a laugh.  “I think I’d pull you over.”  He pushed Errek’s hand aside and stood.  Opened his mouth.  A sigh.  “I’ll try, okay?  This is <i>hard</i>.  I wasn’t raised for this.  I had no idea what I was raising you for.  I never would have imagined this.  I just wanted you to be my family.  And not Ilen’s.  Or Zehra’s.”

“Then stop hiding things from me.  Okay?  <i>Trust me.</i>”

“That’s…”  Torani stared at the door.  “We’ll talk about it later.  Come on, Errek.”
