It started as a tinny scratch.  A scraping echo that roused Hook-Nose.  As sound grew louder, Alpha shifted.  Suddenly, the old grub shot to attention.  He growled upwards and bolted into the darkness.  Aggressive digging.  Then silence.  Well, silence other than that swishing, crumbling of rock as something descended the pit.

Hook-Nose cautiously lifted his weight onto his elbows.  Burying himself might have been the best next move.  Except he was afraid that he would get trapped under the sand.  It had been hard enough to dig out the first time.  He squinted up.  The scraping differentiated into two bodies.  They slid down the wall aided by a rope.  Each held a flickering lantern.

Serana hit the sand first, but something in Demeko’s hand caught Hook-Nose’s attention.  A burlap bag.  Hook-Nose sniffed the air.  <i>Meat</i>.  The intruders had brought dinner.

Hook-Nose half-lunged forward, tumbling to a stop as he realized caution was warranted.  The newcomers were tall and muscular.  If Hook-Nose got into a fight with them, he would lose.  Beyond that, some nagging, unremembered memory warned him to not to trust these two.  He hunkered down to watch.

Demeko placed his lantern in the pit center.  Walking a wide circle around it, he dumped the bag’s contents.  Hands.  Both halves of a rib cage.  Cuts of muscle clinging to bone fragments.  Shiny organ slices.  Indescribable flesh hunks.  It all splashed onto the sand.

Seeing the scraps was too much.  Hook-Nose scrambled forward.  Flinched.  Stopped.  His back could not handle fast motions.  His only option was to take it slow and hope that the others—He cringed.  Chaser was already on the scene.  Shoveling as much sand as meat into his mouth.

Four-Fingers slipped in beside him.  Chaser shoved her back.  She held her ground momentary, but a flash of teeth was enough to scare her off.  She skulked beyond the light’s rim.  Digger hung back patiently, choosing to trace lines in the sand rather than confront Chaser.  Spook was no bolder.  He cowered by the wall, the lantern glow reflecting off his hungry, pink eyes.

Serana put a hand on her hip and waved at Chaser.  “My bet’s on this one being a royal if we got one.”  She picked up a rib rack and waved it in Chaser’s face.  He snapped at it, but it was above his head.  She kept it out of reach as he climbed to his feet to jump for it.

“Don’t play with it,” Demeko huffed.

“I’m not playing.  We’re supposed to check them all out, right?”  She tossed the ribs to the farthest wall.  Chaser shot after them.  The other grubs rushed into the pit center to grab their share.  Even Hook-Nose finally made it to a forgotten femur on the edge.  “Well, here’s the rest of ‘em.”  

As usual, Demeko’s neutral expression wreaked of disapproval.

While the new grubs gorged, Scar wandered into the light.  He sat by the lantern and stared up at the knights.  Serana raised an eyebrow at him.  Meanwhile, Chaser returned to the feast, glaring at the other grubs.  His sights landed on Scar.  As if to make some point, Chaser dropped to a crouch and brushed roughly into him.

Scar spared the new grub a glance, then turned his attention back to the knights.  Confused, Chaser growled at him.  Scar gently pushed Chaser away.  Furious, Chaser lunged.  Scar scootched back.  Chaser bellyflopped onto the sand.  That put an easier target directly in his line of sight: Hook-Nose.  A grin spread across Chaser’s face.  He gave a full-bodied growl. 

Hook-Nose narrowed his eyes.  He was too hungry and had endured too much pain to give up the femur.  His lips pealed back.  A low warning hiss through bared teeth.

Chaser launched at him.  Hook-Nose held fast.  Waited for it.  Then wildly biting the air.  Chaser pivoted.  The two grubs exchanged snarling teeth.  Suddenly, Chaser was lifted.  Demeko had him by the neck.  Chaser struggled futilely until he was tossed aside.  On landing, he yelped like a beat dog.

Serana snorted.  “And you have a problem with my methods?”

“They understand through violence.”  Demeko studied Hook-Nose.  Feeling eyes on him, Hook-Nose hunched protectively over his scraps.

“Well… Ignoring the one from the last brood, we’ve got… five of them.”

“Six.”  Demeko pointed to a chewed-on corpse.

Serana wandered over to investigate.  “She didn’t finish the change.  Dud.”  She sighed and stood again.  “So, where’s the other one?”  No response from Demeko.  Shrugging, Serana began checking the darkest edges of the pit.

Demeko kneeled by Hook-Nose.  Hook-Nose greeted him with a feral hiss.  The knight shushed him.  In turn, Hook-Nose snapped at him.  In a flash, his head was pinned to the sand.   He writhed under Demeko’s grasp.  Something touched his back.  Prodding.  Poking.  Jabbing.  Hook-Nose tensed straight then crumpled into limp pile of quivering submission.  Demeko retracted his hand.  It was coated in sticky, black blood.

“Fuck!” Serana swore.  “Another dead one!”

“Serana—”

“It’s torn to pieces!  There’s little bits of it everywhere!”

“Ser—”

“That damn failed worker is killing them again.  We have to find it this time.  If we don’t, we’re going to lose the whole—!”

“SERANA!”  Raising his voice silenced her, but Demeko grimaced at himself.  He took a measured breath.  “Do we need to have <i>that</i> discussion again?”

“But Demeko, this is—!”

“What does it take to execute queen’s will?”

Serana’s shoulders slumped.  “Rationality.  Without emotion.”

“Act accordingly.”

“<i>Yessir.</i>”

Demeko leaned back on his heels and scanned the brood.  “So it was eaten.  Why are you sure they"—He specifically pointed to Chaser—"didn’t do it?” 

“Look at this mess.”  Serana shined her lantern over the hollowed-out corpse.  A twisted, broken husk like a snake’s shed skin.  “First night grubs will give you a few love bites, sure, but this one’s torn to ribbons.  The whole pack of ‘em couldn’t do this.  Not yet.”

“What about that one?”  He nodded to Scar.

Serana marched up to Scar, put a hand on his head, and tilted him until he fell off balance.  When he righted himself, Serana pushed him over again.  He ducked the third time Serana reached out.  “I think he’s passed the <i>kill-everything-the-moves</i> phase.”

“Behaving in front of us comes before behaving in our absence.”

“If there is one thing I remember from being a grub—”

“It’s nothing.  You remember nothing.  What you think you are remembering is a bad dream.”

“I remember that son-of-a-bitch trying to kill me.”  A warning glare from Demeko.  Serana took a breath.  “He is real.  He never ascended.  He keeps killing the new grubs.”

“If it will calm you, we can search for him — again — when we’re done.  We have more pressing concerns right now.  Understood?”

Serana nodded.

“This one doesn’t look good.”  Demeko held up his bloody hand.

Serana swallowed another curse as she hurried to Demeko’s side.  She held her lantern over Hook-Nose’s back.  Black grit streaked his filthy work shirt.  She peeled it away, revealing a long, ragged gash down his spine.  White bone process peaked out of the wound.  Feeling crowded, Hook-Nose edged back, leaving the femur unprotected.  Realizing his mistake, he snatched it, clutching it tightly to his chest.

“At least he’s got a good appetite.” Serana rubbed her forehead.  “What did the workers do to him?  His spine’s twisted.  Wait…”  She squinted at him.  “Was he the first one?  Yeah… he was.  He had a first-initiation hunter carrying him.  I bet that idiot dropped him.”

“Do you think this will fix itself when he ascends?”

“I have no idea.  Is he even going to last that long?  Honestly, I’d put him out of his misery, but we already lost two.  We can’t lose half the brood on night one.”

“Can you fix it?”

“A-am I allowed to?”

“In this case—” Demeko hesitated and looked up.  “It’s been made clear how important this brood is.  It’s your duty to fix it if you can.”

“Yeah,” Serana exhaled anxiously.  “Okay.  Sure.  I can try.  Hold him down for me.”

Cautiously, Demeko reached for Hook-Nose’s shoulder.  The grub slunk away, growling through a mouthful of bone and marrow.  Serana tossed a better scrap in front of him.  All prior animosity was forgotten.  He jumped on it.  Demeko pinned him.  Hook-Nose thrashed until Serana placed her hands along his spine.  He whimpered as her fingers felt out the damage.

“It’s not as bad as it looked.  There’s just the one kink.”  Serana pinched the wound to twist the vertebrae back into place.  Hook-Nose gurgled out a shrill scream.  No matter how Serana gripped the bones, they slipped from her fingers.  The other grubs crept away amid the shrieking.  Even Chaser left without taking anything with him.

Frustrated, Serana released Hook-Nose and dug through the supplies in her belt bag.  She pulled out a knife.  “Sorry, little brother.  You’re not going to like this.” Two quick stabs to make a small hole on either side of the wound.  Serana stuck her fingers into the knife holes and easily cracked the vertebrae back into place.  Hook-Nose went still.  “Ffff—”

“Did you kill him?”

Serana desperately searched for a pulse.  His neck, his elbow, his wrist.  A faint twinge.  She pressed harder.  There it was.  A weak, slow, steady heartbeat.  “No.  He fainted.”  She nicked herself with the knife.  Her blood dribbled over Hook-Nose’s wounds.  She searched her pockets until she found wire and a needle.  Threading the wire, she sewed the wounds closed.   When the job was done, she started to put away her supplies.  Stopped.  “Are the rest okay?”

Demeko stood.   “I’ll check.”  One-by-one, he tracked down the grubs.  Each shrieked or hissed or growled when caught.  He would shush it, and if that was not enough, he pinned it to the sand. 

Meanwhile, Serana sat in a daze.  Scar crept closer to her, settling at her side in a low crouch.  She glanced down and poked his forehead.  Whispering, “I know you’re not the one who did the bad thing.”

Demeko’s hand appeared in Scar’s face, shooing him away.  The old knight sat pointedly in front of Serana.  “The rest are fine.  One’s missing part of a finger, but that’s nothing to worry about.”

“Nothing else needs to be fixed then?  We either do it today, or we don’t do it at all.”

“I know.  Ignoring that one” — he pointed to Hook-Nose — “the remaining brood looks strong.”

“Yeah.”  Serana looked around the pit.  Sighed.  “I don’t think we’re going to find the bad grub tonight…  He’ll be too deep by now.  Let’s just report to the queen.  We have to remember to clean house before the next brood though.  We can’t let him do this again.”  Serana stood, but Demeko remained sitting.  “Unless there’s something else?”

Demeko laced his fingers together.  “I’m concerned about your behavior.”

Serana crossed her arms.  “So I lost my composure for a minute.  You know I’m not at my best down here.”

“I’ve <i>been</i> concerned.  You haven’t been yourself since our would-be prince failed to ascend.”

“What are you talking about?”

“Torani is… disruptive.”

“Don’t you mean ‘<i>Knight-Prince</i> Torani’?”

“Yes.”  Demeko’s tone said no.  “I don’t believe he means to be disruptive.  The queen would deal with him if it were intentional.  However, he is damaged.”

“You can’t talk about a higher family member that way.”

“If you understand he’s above you, then you should not act like his equal.”  Serana said nothing, so Demeko continued.  “He has a knight’s faculties to deal with a prince’s privileges.  <i>That</i> is his damage.  He acts out because of it.  And he entices you to do the same.  And you play along.”

“I’m just doing a higher family member’s bidding.”

“I follow his orders without stepping out of place.”

“What am I doing that I shouldn’t be doing!?” Having answered the question in asking, Serana licked her teeth.

“Even when he’s not around, you’re struggling to stay in line.  That hurts both of you.  He’s not going to stop until you stop encouraging him.”

Through tight lips, “Understood.”

Demeko’s brow furrowed.  “These aren’t my rules, Serana.  I know you two were close before, but this is what we are.  If we were meant for more—”

“I would have ascended further.  I know.”

“I’m pushing you, because I’m afraid for your future if you do not get yourself under control.  Yes, the queen forgave your outbursts when you first ascended.  But there’s no excuse for this behavior anymore.  You pulled yourself together back then.  You can do it again now.  That is the last I’ll say on the matter.”  Demeko grabbed his lantern and started climbing out of the pit.

Serana watched him go.  A mumbled whisper, “I know.  But I can take care of myself.  It would be easier for both of us if you <i>stopped worrying about me!</i>”  A huff.  She took to the wall, leaving the grubs to fight over the remaining scraps in darkness.
