Strange that doing something so wrong, so against everything had he ever wanted, could bring such relief.  Torani placed a hand against the entrance tunnel’s bare rock.  Cold.  Sharp.  Unyielding.  And yet it filled him with the sense of home.  Ahead, the sconce’s glow called to him.  One look back at moonlight pooling at the exit.  At everything he was leaving behind.

Errek would okay without him.

The city suited Errek.  He was not addicted to this dark place and its strict, unquestioned hierarchy.  He would be furious when he realized Torani had left him.  But he would get over it.  Out there, he had a chance at the life Torani thought he wanted.  One with choice.  Freedom.  Autonomy.  Errek could handle those responsibilities alone.  Torani belonged here.

As he entered the main chamber, the back wall drew his gaze.  The slat cage’s charred remains had been driven into that rock, forming a spiral.  Queen Azehralia was pegged into the center.  Arms outstretched.  Legs tied together straight.  Her chest ripped open, revealing a dark void where her heart should have been.   Her intestines dangled limply below her belly.  A bloody alter, sanctifying the old regime.  Or maybe a warning.

Flickering fire reflected off the dead queen’s eyes and hair.  That dancing light seemed to burn from within her.  Like she was still breathing.  Torani looked away.

And locked into stare with Rotero.  The knight stood straight and apathetic at the pit edge.  He wore the same shirt from the night Torani left.  Stained dark brown.  Shredded.  Scar tissue hinted through gaping holes.  A gurgling rattle called Torani’s attention to Rotero’s feet.

“No…”  Torani stepped away.

Demeko lay on his belly, facing into the pit, but glaring up out of the corner of his eye.  His spinal wound had scabbed into a clotted, black mound.  Slowly, stiffly, his arms pushed up.  Rotated his mass to face Torani head on.  Maybe he was incapable of turning his head.  And could those glossy, clouded eyes really see anything?  Or had Demeko recognized Torani by scent?  His nostrils flared with each ragged breath.

Garbled hissing.  Demeko lunged forward.  His arms flung out.  Scraping the rock.  Swinging his body side to side wildly.  A lizard fighting to dash across sand.

Torani stumbled.  Losing his footing.  Crashing to the ground.  Squeezing his eyes shut.  A furious, gurgling shriek.  And then nothing.

Torani peeked at Demeko.  Rotero had leaned down just enough to grab Demeko’s shirt.  To hold him back.  Demeko futilely thrashed about.  But the head knight had him.  There was no chance of escape.  Eventually, he gave up and went still.

Cautiously, Torani returned to his feet.  “T-thanks, Roter—”

“She been waiting for you, <i>Prince</i>.”

Torani grimaced.  What a gut punch.  “Yeah…”

“I assume you remember where to go.”

“I do…”  He looked into the pit.  The idea of climbing down made him dizzy.  Instead, he walked a wide arc around Rotero and Demeko.  Not wide enough.  Demeko jolted into flailing and hissing.  Torani bolted past them.

Halfway to the pit’s far side, Torani saw a hunter party swarm the wall.  Ascending it to begin their nightly hunt.  As they passed, the pack pushed into Torani.  Shoved him aside.  Hissed at him amid hyena cackles.  A command about showing respect to higher ranks died in his throat.  He had no rank here.  Not anymore.  He was a stranger.  An intruder.  The best he could do was sneer at their backs.

“You.”

Torani refocused forward.  Kordi.  Except <i>not</i> Kordi.  At her new height, she looked him straight in the eye.  Her hair was strawberry blonde at the roots, fading into knight blonde at the tips.  Torani held his ground.  “Yeah.  Me.”

Looking the failed prince up and down, a quiet chuckle rumbled through her muscular form.  Her signature, mischievous smile was tainted darker than it should have been.

Torani swallowed a growl.  “What?”

She extended her wings.  Only half grown, but more impressive than Torani’s stubs.  He felt his set clench up.  The digits on her wings were all accounted for.  All perfectly formed.  That one motion proved her superiority.  As she walked by, she jammed her elbow into his stomach, winding him.

Coughing, staggering, he reached the point above the Queen’s Balcony.  Looked down.  “SERANA!”  She was here!  Still alive!  Sitting on the balcony railing.  REAL.  He threw off his coat and hopped into the pit.  His wings fluttered their best, but he landed hard.  Fell onto his left knee.  Dragged himself back to his feet.  “Serana!”  He leaned over the railing next to her to see her face.

She glanced at him dully.  Without recognition.  On a delay, she said, “Oh.  It’s <i>you</i>.”

Torani pulled away.  “Yeah.  It’s <i>me</i>.”  He cleared his throat.  “I came back.”

No response.

He crossed his arms tightly.  “You knew we would come back for you, right, Rana?  As soon as Errek was stronger.  That was the plan.”

A scoff.  “Why’d you have to come back at all?  You left me behind.  Again.  And that was—”

“I didn’t want to!”

“I don’t care anymore!” She finally turned to face him.  “Do you have any idea how wonderful that is?  <i>To not care</i>?”

“What?”

“Vaeilentha is a real leader.  There’s no more exceptions.  No more loopholes.  No more confusion.  There isn’t a feeling like you belong or don’t belong.  There’s just orders.  We finally know what we’re doing!”

“You never wanted that!”

“It was exactly what I needed, <i>Prince</i>!  And where the hell <i>is</i> Errek?  What did you do to him?  You didn’t leave him out there alone, did you?”

“I mean, I—”

“You did!  What were you thinking!?  Oh.  Right.  Never mind.  You weren’t thinking.  Apparently, that’s not what pretend princes are built for.”

Torani felt his knees shaking.  Especially the left one.  He leaned all his weight onto the railing.  “This isn’t you.”

“Yeah.  It is.  This is me.”  Thumb to her chest.  “Well-adjusted.  Unafraid.  And content.”

“You aren’t any of those things!  You never were!”

Serana yanked him forward by the shirt collar.  “And whose fault do you think that was!?”  Her free hand cocked back.  Nails sharp.  Ready to strike.  She shoved Torani instead.  Spat on the balcony.  “You’re not worth it.”  She made her way to the wall.

“Serana—”

“You’re long overdue for your punishment.  Best not keep Queenie waiting.”  She climbed up.

Torani watched her go.  Every fiber of his being screamed to stop her.  To bring her back.  To make her fight him if that was what had to happen!  She disappeared over the edge.  There was no point in chasing her.  Not now.  There was nothing left to salvage.

He limped to the French doors.  Swallowed.  Opened them.  Entered the darkness.  Was enclosed by it when the doors shut.

Bare rock crunched under his feet.  The once elegantly polished room was raw caverns now.  The stairs down to the old queen’s meeting chamber were blocked off with boulders.  He continued deeper.  To where Vaeilentha’s tunnels forked.  A dim light drew him down the right corridor.  His steps echoed uncomfortably around him.

The tunnel kinked further right at the bottom, leading into a large, circular room.  It was warm.  Lit by its own violently, roaring sconce.  Vaeilentha lay draped over one of the old queen’s couches.   She eased into sitting position, stretching lazily as Torani approached.  When he stopped before her, she regarded her nails.

“Evening, Ilen.”

She crossed one leg over the other and settled comfortably into her spot.  Her half-lidded stare pleasantly waiting.  A show suggesting she was in no hurry to begin his torment.  The commanding rhythm in her tapping fingers betrayed her impatience.  She cleared her throat.

Torani glanced about the room, searching for anything he might have missed.  Something to clue him in to what she wanted.

“I’m waiting for you to show proper respect, Torani.”

“Right… Of course…”  Torani forced himself down on one knee.

She tsked.  “You know, I didn’t expect you back so soon.  I suppose I overestimated you.  I have such a bad habit of doing that, don’t I?”

His fists tightened.  “Why did you call me back?”

“I didn’t?”

“Yes, you did.  Why?”

“Really?  Torani, you know my influence doesn’t extend beyond these walls.  Not yet anyway.”  She straightened up.  “You came back of your own free will.”

“No, I didn’t.”

“If you want to know why you’re here, you’ll have to ask yourself.”

“I’m here because you won’t get out of my head!  You won’t leave me alone!”

“That’s not why you’re here.”

He shot to his feet but almost crashed back down.  Dizzying déjà vu overwhelmed him.  He shook it off.  “Then tell me why!”

“What’s the one thing that drives <i>everything</i> you do?”

“Errek.  Serana.  Having a family.”

She cackled.  “You’re still holding onto that lie?”

“It’s not a lie!”

“Okay, so why do you even want a family?”

“Because that’s what princes do.  They help start—”

“You’re not a prince, never were, and never will be.  Try again.”

“If you’ve already decided the answers to your questions, then why are you asking me?”

“You’ve got me there.”  She shrugged.  “Fine.  I’ll explain it in simple terms even you can understand.  You want to be a prince, to start your family, because that is what <I>I</I> expected from you.  You never got the memo that I don’t care about you anymore.  I found my prince.  And she’s not you.”

“That’s not—”

“You know, the worst part is how jealous you’ve gotten about it.  You don’t want me to have her, and you don’t want Errek to have her either.  That’s why you came back alone.  You can’t stand the idea of another prince being with <i>either</i> of us.  You would rather we suffer in the name of your <i>ego</i>.”

“I left Errek because—!”

“Don’t keep lying to me, <i>to yourself</i>.  What’s the point?”  A sigh.  “Come here.”  She held out her hand.  Torani stared at it like she had presented a poisonous snake.  One with shiny, sleek scales.  Brilliant colors.  That endearing little tongue flickering between black, begging eyes.  He allowed her to guide him to a spot next to her.  “No more lies.  Why do you keep coming back?”

“I want the pain to stop.”

“Now, <i>that</i> I can help you with.”

“I didn’t say I wanted to die, Ilen, I said—”

“Shh.”  She placed a finger over his lips.  “I know what you mean.  You finally believe that you’re a knight, but you can’t accept it.  Not as you are.  That’s what hurts so much.  Holding onto this impossible dream.  I can fix that though.  Turn around.”

“Why?”

“Do as I ask.”

She leaned over to fish something out from under the couch.  Nervously, Torani turned around.  His fingers picked at a loose seam in the couch’s arm.  What was she planning to do?

He glanced back.  Whatever was in her hand reflected the firelight in a flash.  The realization of what it was came through foggy.  His mind refused to accept that she was holding a knife.

“Once we remove these extra bits, you’ll feel like a knight again.”  She slashed through his shirt.  Through skin.  Through muscle.  Digging in and wrenching the wing bone out of its socket.  A strangled scream.  He clawed forward, trying to drag himself out of reach.

She held him in place.  “Hush.  This is for the best.”  Hacking away at the remaining skin.  “Once we’re done, perhaps I’ll even be able to tolerate having you at my side.  A much prettier Rotero.  We’d just have to do something about that noisy mouth of yours.”   The wing came loose.  She tossed the twitching appendage aside.  “One more.”

“STOP!”

She stabbed into his back.  Sawed around the remaining wing like she was carving an eye into a jack-o-lantern.  Pulling it up.  Thin tendon strings held tight.  She snipped them.  Tossed the second wing on top of the first.  Looked down to admire her bloody handywork.  “Congratulations.  You’re officially a knight.  Just a knight.”

The flesh hunks continued to jitter and scratch at the floor.  One dragged itself closer.  Scraped at the couch fabric.  Vaeilentha clicked her tongue.  “You know, if they reattach themselves, I’m going to have to cut them off again.”

Torani could not go through that.  He whirled around.  Snapped at her neck.  Connected.  This time he could do it.  Bit deep.

He awoke choking on a mouthful of his own blood.  Kicking.  Flailing.  Caught up in the sheets they had taken from Lucille’s house.  He forced himself to stay still.  Extracted his teeth from his arm.  Shoved the bedding away.  Sat up.  Dizzy.  Swaying.  Feeling sick.

He tried to rise to his feet.  To shake off the lightheadedness.  No dice.  Down on his knees, he retched up blood on the utility closet’s shiny tile floor.

“Dammit.”  He wiped his mouth clear.  Or tried.  He actually wiped more blood on his face from his self-inflicted bite wound.  Snagging the sheet, he wrapped it around his arm to put pressure on it.  His panting halted.  He reached back.  Exhaled slowly.  His wings were still attached.  Of course they were.

He stepped back through the nightmare.  Most of it had gone the way it always did.  This was the first time his dismembered parts tried to reattach themselves though.  Then again, normally he woke up as soon as Vaeilentha started cutting.

“So, are we still pretending this isn’t happening?”

Torani flinched.  “Hey, Errek.”

“Hey.  Just so you know, you kicked me.  Hard.  I’m expecting bruises.”

“I’m sorry.”

Errek crawled to Torani.  He set his hand in the blood puke puddle by accident.  When he realized his mistake, he frowned at the gooey fluid on his hand.

“Sorry.”

“Is <i>this</i> why you haven’t been eating?”

“Partially.”

“Ech.”  He stared down at the sheet around Torani’s arm.  “I guess this will be gross anyway.”  He wiped his hand clean on it.  “So, what’s haunting you today?”

“No.”

“Come on, Torani.  Talk to me.”

“These are my demons to deal with.”

“And talking might help you do that.”

Torani’s frown deepened.

Errek leaned back with a huff.  “You know, you’re so insistent that we’re a family, but you don’t trust me with anything.  Isn’t that supposed to be what family does?  Trust each other?”

“I don’t know.”

“What’s your guess then?”

“My guess is I don’t know what I’m doing anymore.”  He breathed a laugh.  “’Anymore.’  Like I ever knew.”

“You’re doing that thing again.  The one where you talk like you’re useless.”

“I’m accepting the truth.”

“You’re accepting despair.”

“Don’t you get it?  I’m the one who forced us all to be my family.  I fought for it.  And for what?”  Torani threw his arms out in a wide shrug.  “To let you down?  To hurt you?   To leave you behind?”

“We didn’t leave Serana behind.”  Torani flinched, but Errek continued anyway.  “She told us to go.  So we could regroup.  We’re going back for her, remember?”

“What if she doesn’t want to be with us?”

“We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it.”

“Easy for you to say.”

“No.  It’s not.”  He crackled his knuckles and flexed out his fingers.  “You keep calling it ‘my family.’  But it ain’t.  It’s <i>our</i> family.  You’re not the only one invested in this.  And, yeah, you screwed up when you disappeared on us.  And, sure, Serana got angry about it.  But she has a right to be angry about it!  It doesn’t mean she doesn’t care about you.  It doesn’t mean we don’t want this to work.  But it’s not going to if you give up every time you realize you’re making a mistake.”

“I’m not giving up.  I’m trying to accept that—!” That his entire life was a pathetic, spiraling lie built on misplaced privilege and selfishness.  “That I’m not who I thought I was.”  He rubbed the back of his neck.  “And it’s going to be hard to become who I want to be.”

“I’ve got your back in the meantime.”

“I know you do, Errek.  I know.”

“So, tell me why you keep waking up screaming and fighting.”

“No.”

“Torani—!”

He held up one finger.  Errek clamped his mouth shut, but his eyes burned with impatient fury.  “I don’t want to put this on you.  I don’t want you to know about it.  I don’t want you to understand it.  I don’t want it to start <i>eating you alive</i>.  That has nothing to do with trust.  If I don’t want this in my head, why would I want to put it into yours?”

“Or maybe it won’t hurt me, because they’re not my demons.  It’ll just get whatever-it-is out of you.”

“I’m not willing to risk it.”

Errek shook his head and rolled his eyes.  “Fine.  We’ll just keep doing <i>this”</i>—He waved at the blood mess—"until you cave in.  And when you do…”  He pointed to himself.

Torani looked away.  He heard Errek grumbling as he crawled back to the far corner.  Settled on top of Lucille’s pillow.  Out of kicking range.  Torani’s head drooped as he whispered to himself, “I know.”  He scanned his mummy-wrapped arm.  Flexed the fingers.  It still hurt.  Best to leave the pressure in place.  It would give him something to worry over for the rest of his sleepless day.
