A warm night meant the crowds were out in droves.  From his vantage point on the roof, Errek spent as much time hunting as he did harmlessly people watching.  A sign of his good mood.  Tonight, he had gotten up there unassisted.  No more crutches.  No more Torani carrying him.

As if Torani could still pick him up.  Errek had packed on at least 20 pounds.  And he could stand to put on a lot more.  For the first time, he had to glance down to make eye contact with Torani.  And, initially, it seemed like that difference alone had earned him a longer leash.  Torani argued with him less.  Held him back less.  Errek struggled to contain his annoyance that height equaled respect.

Until he realized that was not where his new freedom came from.  Torani was exhausted.  Too tired to pick fights with Errek.  The abyssal circles under his eyes somehow achieved a deeper, absolute black every night.  But, so long as Torani refused to talk about it, Errek could not help.

So, he focused on practical problems.  Like dinner.  These nights, he was ravenous.  A memory wisp tickled him.  <i>Not enough of him to ascend</i>.  That sounded right.  But he had the solution at his fingertips.  Hustling, bustling downtown Manitou Springs was his oyster.  And, by god, he enjoyed cracking it open.

He leaned over the edge to assess tonight’s menu.  Experience had taught him what Kordi never had the chance to: picking a target was about more than status markers.  That was the tip of the iceberg.  The top-level sorting criterion.  The devil was in the details.

Like that man.  In the poorly fit suit lacking even the flair of some cheap pinstripes.  It screamed “best outfit a day-laborer can afford.”  An easy target, right?  No.  That gentlemen had an edge to him.  An anger streak that bled out in a dark twitch under his congenial smile.  One the vendor he spoke with would taste the full wrath of if their meaningless argument escalated further.

Explosive tempers never played well with Errek’s hunting style.  He needed the permissive.  The submissive.  Those who he could wrap an arm around and corral aside like an old friend.  Who, with the slightest electrical coaxing, would be sure they recognized the stranger speaking to them.  They would cheerfully answer Errek’s prying questions:

How’s the family?  Is everything okay on the work front?  What were your evening plans?

If Errek heard an answer with attached warning bells, he backed off.  Asked a few more small-talk questions and sent them on their way.  Moved onto the next potential target

That technique had served him well for gathering information.  Everyone’s willingness to talk about the disappearances in Colorado Springs was surprising.  Though just stone’s throw away, Manitou’s residents felt isolated from it.  Errek learned others had gone missing in Colorado Springs since he left.  Perfect.  Surely, any meat hunters kept their attention there.  Manitou, meanwhile, was ignorant to its own population decreases.

For all the good in these chitchats, Errek slipped up on occasion.  Picked someone with too much fire.  Someone who took offense at the forward, feigned intimacy.  Defied pulsing and made a ruckus.  A quick, “Sorry, I thought you were someone else,” always settled the matter.  He hated causing a scene though.  Drawing attention to himself.  He felt Torani’s momentary heart attack whenever it happened.

Given Torani’s state, best to avoid that tonight.  Errek’s eyes focused on a dignified, old woman in a business skirt.  Her neat, delicate jewelry spoke to high class.  Why would a dour someone-of-standing immerse herself in this sea of hoots, hollers, and excitement?

Her slow, weary gait told Errek everything.  She was alone.  Not just here.  There was no husband or lover awaiting her return home.  The world had forgotten about her.  And she had accepted it.  Sadly, she was too nervous to quietly appreciate a strange man accosting her on a dark street.  Moving on.

As for that— “You,” Errek hissed.  He hunkered down, but she had already spotted him.  A young woman in tasteful but drab clothing.  The kind of nobody who fits in anywhere without leaving a mark.  Errek was unsure when she had first noticed him, but this was the third night they had made eye contact.  Though nothing ever came of it, he bad feeling about her.

She never seemed bound for anywhere.  Never met up with anyone or bought anything.  Her behavior conflicted with every known motive to stay out late.  Unless she was a meat hunter… Except she never made a move to come after Errek.  She just watched.  An enigma with the uncanny ability to show up wherever he was hunting.  Whatever she wanted, she was a liability.  And if Torani caught onto her presence, they might have to move.  <i>Again.</i>

He crept away from the edge, joining Torani at the fire escape.  Torani’s eyebrows raised.  “You found someone already?”

“Nah.  It feels too crowded.  Too anxious.  There must be an event on or something.  Let’s see if things are calmer on the east side.”

Torani nodded vaguely and descended the ladder.  Thank goodness he was too tired to question anything these nights.  Errek hurried down after.  He kept his limp in check as they took meandering back routes across the city.  By the time they reached the next spot, aching pain had zapped Errek’s strength.  Oh well, not like he needed it for his hunting technique.

He settled on a roof overlooking restaurants.  Afterall, well-fed food was amiable food.  Nothing caught his eye though.  Everyone seemed to be going in pairs.  That was the problem with this end of town.  It drew couples.  A bubbly giggling rang out.  A woman stumbled from a side alley into the main thoroughfare.  With bobbed hair and a short, sleek skirt, her plastic bead jewelry jingled with newly middle-class independence.

It was a good thing she was in flats.  Otherwise, she would have been on the ground.  Errek scanned the crowds around and behind her.  A flapper fresh out of some speakeasy with no beau in sight?  Her odds of making it home were bad.  And she headed for an alley across the way.  Even worse.

Errek gave Torani a thumbs up on his way past.  Sliding down the fire escape, he cut around the building to the main street.  The target had vanished.  He danced through the crow to the alley he thought she was going for.  Not there.  Unless she had tripled her pace, she had taken another route.  Clicking his tongue, he hurried further west.  There she was.  One alley further down and about to make a turn behind a building.

Her purse’s skinny strap slid off her shoulder.  An opportunity.  Errek stepped to her side as she rounded the bend.  He gently pushed the strap back in place.  A perfect segue to plant his hand firmly on her bare shoulder.  “Hey babe, how does a sweet thing like you find herself all alone this late at night?”

She mocked a scoff between giggles.  “None of your business, cat.”

“I’m just saying, the city’s a dangerous place for thing of beauty.  Maybe you need an escort.”

“Oh yeah?  Well, I think the most dangerous thing out here, is <i>you</i>.”  She gave him a limp shove.

A snort with a closed lip smile.  “Yeah, you might be right about that.”

Footsteps in the alley.  Errek glanced back.  It was <i>her</i>.  <i>That woman</i>.  This was no coincidence.  Whatever it was, it had to end.  The hunt was off.  “Sorry, doll, I gotta scram.  Let’s pick this up some other time.”  He winked slyly at her.  His expression died as he turned to face his stalker.

The flapper laughed.  “Hey, honey, you need to put a leash on this one!”  She stumbled off.

The stalked spun on her heels.  Walking towards main street’s safety.  Not happening.  Errek took off after her.  But she was faster.  Damn legs!

<I>FREEZE</I>.

Torani beat Errek to the punch.  He dropped into the alley and grabbed the stalker.  Errek smirked.  It faded when Torani gasped in pain.  The stalker shoved him back and escaped the alley.  Errek skidded to a stop.  Torani’s arm covered a bloody gash across his chest.  Growling through grit teeth, “I’ll get her.”  Torani shot back up the wall.

“But how am I gonna keep up!?”

<I>ALERT</I>.  Torani was already a building away.

“Seriously?”  Errek tried to run.  A crunchy pop from his ankle.  “DAMMIT.”  So much for that.  He hobbled back to the main street.  Another clickpulse.  Lugging his unwilling body further east, there was a third clickpulse.  Torani was moving way too fast.  Errek started panting.  He felt the late-night shoppers’ eyes on him.  <i>Nothing to see here, folks.  Just a crippled vampire hoping to introduce a meat hunter to the big sleep</i>.

He reached the block’s end, staggering into parking lot.  <I>ALERT</I>.  Errek discreetly returned call, so Torani would know where he was.  That he would never catch up.  Unless… his gaze fixed on a pickled lad fumbling with his car key on the lot’s far side.

Errek closed the distance and stepped onto the car’s fender to lean over the cab.  “Hey, looks like you could use some help.”  He reached in and wrapped his hand around the teen’s wrist to push the key into the ignition.  Pushing calm almost seemed like overkill in the kid’s current state.  Almost.  “You know, I could use a ride.  You mind?”

“S-sure?”

Errek was already climbing over him and into the passenger’s seat.  Nothing more from Torani, but Errek knew what direction he had been heading.  “Due east, Kiddo.”

The teen complied.  Slowly but surely, he rolled out of the parking lot.  Eased his way onto the main street.  Paused at a stoplight.  Walking would have been faster!

“You ain’t getting points for safe driving tonight.  Step on it or I will!”  Errek flashed his teeth.  The kid hit the accelerator.  The wind hit Errek’s face.  “Better.  Now where the hell is Torani?”  He gave a clickpulse.  Torani returned call behind him.  Behind him?  Did the meat hunter double back?  “Ease up.”  He wrenched around in his seat.  No sign of his royal.  Scratching his head, he turned to face front.  Saw a figure on the road in front of him.  “BREAKS, KID, BREAKS!”

They skidded to a stop in front of Torani.  He hopped onto the car hood and crouched down in front of Errek.  “I see you already found our ride.”

“Yeah, and I managed not to hit you with it!  Where’s the meat hunter?”

“Forget her.  I should have known I didn’t take us far enough away.  Let’s turn around and head west.”

“West to what?  The mountains?  Nah, Torani, we gotta take care of this.  And NOW.”

“Too risky.  We’re leaving.”

“Have you thought this through?”

“Have you?!”  Torani grimaced.  He pressed harder against his chest wound.

The teen mumbled, “He’s bleeding all over my car.”

“SHUT UP.”  Errek swapped to fear to keep the kid silent.

Torani shook the pain off.  “She’s probably going for back up.  We’d be following her into a death trap.”

“Not if we’re fast.”

“It’s not worth it.”

“It is!”

“What’s worth risking both our necks!?”

“Newspapers, Torani.  They put drawings of wanted people in them.  And if you think she’s not gonna get our faces plastered all over every goddamn newspaper in the country, you’re crazy.  Where are we gonna hunt then?!”

“T-that’s a thing?”

“Yeah.  You learn a lot by talking to the food.  So, what’s riskier now?”

“Shit…”  Torani leaned back.  “Fuck.  Okay, I’ll find her again.  See what we can do.  But if we’re outnumbered, it’s not happening.”

Errek gave Torani a thumbs up, but he was already gone.
