Winding through side streets.  Alternating between crowded and abandoned districts.  Doubling back around repeatedly.  Torani’s clickpulses finally directed Errek to a quiet neighborhood on the northeastern side of Old Colorado City.

The meat hunter dashed into a small house with a gravel lot.  Torani waved for Errek to street park a block away, where they could just see the property.  Its lights were on now, but it had been dark before she entered.  That was promising.

Torani and Errek took turns watching the house and devouring their chauffer.  Errek saw only one shadowy figure passing by the windows.  No one entered.  No cars drifted through the neighborhood.  Maybe she thought she had lost them back in Manitou Springs and had not called for help.  Or her backup was, for the moment, unavailable.  Regardless, it was past midnight.  They had to make a move.

Errek slid off the car’s hood, stretching as he turned to face Torani in the driver’s seat.  “So.  What’s the verdict?”

Torani’s hands tightened on the steering wheel.  “I don’t like this.”  Reluctantly, he reached for the car door and stepped out.  “But I think we have to try.   If anything goes wrong though…”

“We’ll blow this joint.  I get you.  What’s the plan?”

“Try to get in through a window.  I’ll try the door.  Whoever gets her attention first needs to hold it.  That way the other one gets in unnoticed.  He’ll hit her from behind.  A clean takedown.”

“Sounds simple enough.”

“Only if it works.  Be careful.”

“You too.”

They split off in opposite directions.  Errek circled around to the house’s far side, where he found a dark window.  He peeked inside.  The room beyond was small.  It housed a long table with a sewing machine and a chair.  The back wall was bookshelves and a door.  Not much else.  A fine entrypoint.

He pushed the window up.  No dice.  It was locked.  He looked down at the rocks under his feet.  Scooped up a sharp one.  Tossed it and caught it to feel its weight.  Well.  The plan dictated that someone would make a noisy entrance.  He smacked it against the window.

The glass only chipped.  He swore and hammered at it with all his might.  The door slammed open.  Light flooded the room.  The window exploded outwards.  Errek dropped to the ground.  The gunshot boom finally registered as he fervently plucked glass shards out of his face, hands, arms.

Running steps.  Wrists poked out the window.  A gunpoint sought a target.  Errek grabbed for it.  Perfect!  Now he could pulse—The meat hunter was wearing thick, leather gloves.  Not perfect!  She aimed the gun down.

He snapped at her arm.  Two gunshots ricocheted off the ground.  A clattering as she dropped the weapon.  Distant glass shattered.  Errek held on.  Stood up to pull her through the window.  She slammed his head again the frame.  He released her, tumbling onto the gravel.

<I>FREEZE</I>.  A pained gasp.  Torani.  So much for keeping the meat hunter distracted!  Errek jumped to his feet.  Cringed.  No time to indulge his leg.  He scrambled through the window, flopping onto the carpet inside.

With rapid knife swipes, the meat hunter kept Torani on the run.  He danced halfway down the hall.  She landed a hit across his shoulder.  Pushing him.  She retreated to the doorway.  Her eyes refocused on Errek.  

<I>KNEEL</I>.  Torani’s clickpulse only threw Errek off balance.  The meat hunter dashed forward.

Errek pulsed at Torani, <I>STOP</I>.  A slash grazed Errek’s neck.  He swiped at the meat hunter’s face.  Connected.  Stepped forward to land another hit.  His leg gave.  He caught himself on a bookshelf.  She locked onto his weakness.  Repeatedly stabbed his left thigh.

Squealing as Torani sank his teeth into her neck and pulled her into the hallway.  Errek collapsed.  Dazed.  He could rest.  Torani had this.  Except she rammed Torani into the wall.  And again.  Denting plaster in dust puffs.  Crushing his wings.  Torani let go on the fourth impact.

Errek tried to stand.  His leg failed him.  Losing too much blood.  Dizzy.  Crawling forward.  Dragging the useless leg behind him.

The meat hunter jammed her elbow into Torani’s stomach.  He keeled over.  Her knife raised to strike.  Torani grabbed her arm and threw her across the hall.  Sparks scattered from his hand.  He charged at her.  Struck.

She dodged down.  Torani punched through the wall into the kitchen.  Buried himself up to the shoulder.  Tried to squirm back out.  She pinned him in place.  A metal flash.  Knife to spine.  Slicing downwards.  Torani’s twitching body went limp.  She flipped him around to access his chest.  Raised the knife again.

She screamed as Errek clamped onto her ankle.  Snapping a tendon.  She went down.  Errek launched on top of her, but she kicked him back.  Dragged herself through the kitchen entryway.  Strained to reach a telephone cord.  Caught it.  Pulled it.

A candlestick phone tumbled off the kitchen counter onto the laminate floor.  It wrapped itself up in its cord.  Out of reach.  Errek pulled her back into the hallway.

She snagged a purse on the floor.  Smacked him over the head with it.  Stunned him.  She yanked the purse to her side.  Then paused.  Lying flat on her back.  Panting.  Staring at the ceiling.

Errek slowly sat up.  He saw the fear in her eyes.  She was in bad shape.  Not bad enough yet.  He lugged himself forward.  Torani’s arm came loose from the wall and his body toppled onto Errek.  Whining, Errek struggled to get out from underneath.

Meanwhile, the meat hunter retrieved a metal tube from her purse.  Her shaking hands dropped it as she pulled it open.  Pills spilled everywhere.  She fumbled for a brown one.  Crunched down on it.  Swallowed.  Relief filled her.  She eased into sitting position against the wall.  Raised her knife.  Readied for Errek’s next attack.

Torani was too heavy.  Errek was too tired.  He was stuck.  All he could do was hiss at her impotently.  The unexpected victory came through as shock on her face.  Her expression mutated to regret.

She dropped the knife and reached into the kitchen for the phone.  Dragged its dial body close.  Then the mouthpiece.  Prepared to make a call.  Her finger rounded the dial once.  The mouthpiece fell from her hand.  She slouched against the wall.  Her eyes lost focus.

Errek stared at her curiously.  What the hell was wrong with her?  Or maybe the better question was what was that pill she ate?

Her body trembled.  Gave to full seizing.  One last valiant gasp.  She toppled onto the carpet.  By the time her heart stopped, foam trickled down from the corner of her mouth.

Easing out a long, jagged exhale, Errek flattened to the ground.  He could still feel Torani’s weak heartbeat.  Slowly but surely, he wormed his way free and sat up.

“You still with me?”  He tapped on Torani’s shoulder.  No response.  He scanned the wound along Torani’s spine.  Just like Demeko.  Errek cringed at that memory.  At what Torani had done to end Demeko’s suffering.  “This won’t heal, will it?”

Errek knew what he needed to do.  He gently rolled Torani onto his back.  The tears welled in his eyes.  Lifting his hand, it hovered over Torani’s stomach.  It would take one quick motion.  Make it clean.  Painless.

He shook his head and scooted away.  “We’ll figure something out.  I don’t know how, but we’ll get you fixed, okay?  Hang on until then.”  He looked down as his blood-soaked leg.  “How am I gonna get us out of here, Torani?”  He tapped his head against the wall.  “I’m <i>beyond</i> exhausted.”

He gazed around the hallway.  No windows.  They were in the house’s center.  By dawn, light would come in through the kitchen entryway and the door at the hall’s end.  Errek pulled himself and Torani towards the door.  He left Torani on his side, curled up next to him.

Shutting the door, he leaned against it.  It would be dark enough here.  They could stay a day.  Tomorrow, he would find the strength to leave.  His eyes closed.  “I’ll figure something out, Torani.  I promise.”

Errek slipped into a fitful doze.  Half-formed dreams and nightmares drifted through his head.  Kept him from true sleep.  Tortured him with—

“SHIT!”

Errek’s eyes shot open.

Boots crunched through broken glass in the kitchen.  The phone cord jumped up as it was pulled backwards.  The man’s voice swore again.  “Eloise, are you okay!?”

So.  That was the meat hunter’s name.  Three syllables.  Not that it mattered anymore.  Errek checked his leg.  It prickled with pins and needles at rest and ached when he moved it.  He sighed.  It was over.  As soon as this new meat hunter entered the hall, he and Torani were done.

The man, no boy—wait, could a teenager be a hunter?  Either way, he stopped at the hallway threshold shy of the blood pool.  “The hell?”  He dropped the phone and a flower bouquet.  Kneeling, he reached for Eloise’s face.  Her mouth foam rolled onto his thumb.  He shook it off in disgust.  “Great.  Just great!”

He nudged the metal container with his fingertips then scanned the spilled pills.  “Well, Ellie… Clearly, you had some secrets I didn’t dive into…  My mistake.”  Finally, he looked down the hallway.  He startled to his feet as he locked into a stare with Errek.  “Uh.  Hi there.”

Well then.  Would it hurt to try?  <I>KNEEL</I>.  The kid dropped.  A grin spread across Errek’s face.  This was no meat hunter.  <i>This was salvation.</i>  A pliable set of hands that would carry him and Torani out of—

The kid’s eyes flashed turquoise.  “No, you <i>bow</i>.”

Errek’s body contorted forward, bending him in half like a pretzel.  This was new.  Nothing like the clickpulse compulsions.  Nothing like electrical pulses bending emotion.  No.  His body reacted against his mind as if it had a will of its own.

He shot back up.  Apparently, whatever this kid had done, it only lasted long enough to force a response.  That meant that if he could just keep up his clickpulses—

“So, what the hell are you, friend?”  The kid took a step closer.  Errek growled through grit teeth.  “My grandma, them’s some chompers you got there.”  He crossed his arms.  “<i>Damn.</i>  That’s what you are!  You know, I’ve been wondering what the hell was going on with all the carnage in the news.  Vamps are <i>supposed</i> to be extinct.”

<I>COME</I>.  <I>COME</I>.  <I>COME</I>.  The kid stumbled down the hallway.  Stopped within reach.  Errek grabbed his arm and pulled him down.  Switched to electrical pulses.  Pure, amplified pleasure.  He could risk nothing less than that.  The kid swooned and lay limply in Errek’s arms.  Good.  Whatever this kid was, he was mostly still food.

A whisper, “Twist, twist, twist.”

Errek gave a strangled gasp as his arms spiraled back in their sockets.  They spun until he was sure they would break.  The kid grabbed Errek’s hair and smashed his skull against the wall.

“That felt pretty violating.  Let’s not do that again.”  While Errek cradled his head, the kid turned to Torani.  He poked at the spinal injury.  “That doesn’t look too good.”  He flipped Torani over and rested his head on his chest.  “He’s still breathing.  You fangs are hard to kill!”

“Get.  Away.  From him.”

“It speaks!  I’m busy though.  Keep twisting.”  As Errek’s body tried to rip itself apart, the kid placed a hand over Torani’s heart.  Turquoise mist curled around his fingers.  He shuddered with a moan.  A breathy, dry whistle escaped Torani’s lips as his body convulsed once.  His heartbeat ceased.  

“Fuck...”  The kid leaned back with a giddy giggle.  “I wonder if this is what opium feels like…”

“T-torani?”

The kid turned to Errek with a dumb smile plastered on his face.  “You know, that buzz almost makes up for…”  He waved vaguely at the death in the hallway.  His expression hardened.  “Almost.”  He rose to his feet.  “It’ll take more than that to pay off the rest of your debt.  Until then, sleep well.”  He kicked Errek’s forehead with his steel-toed boots.
