Hook-Nose spent four nights submerged in sand.  He ignored his mounting hunger.  Not even the screams of his cohort fighting over scraps drew him out.  Instead, he focused on willing his wounds to heal.  And the pain was subsiding.  But so was his strength.  He had to eat eventually.

One thing kept him from surfacing:  Whenever scraps did not rain into the pit, Alpha hunted the grubs.  Hook-Nose was now the weakest.

He hoped Alpha had forgotten about him.  Surely, that relentless tunneling, burrowing, drilling was not Alpha looking for him.  No, it must have been Digger.  Afterall, on the rare occasions that Hook-Nose surfaced to examine his surroundings, he always met Digger’s flounder eyes.  Still daring him to die.  Still not willing to take matters into her own claws.

Hook-Nose shifted as fresh bones clinked wetly down the pit walls.  Tissue blobs thudded onto the ground.  Shrieks as the others scrambled for them.  A larger hunk splintered apart, sending fleshy shrapnel pattering across the sand.  Pieces parts were still trickling down.  Tonight, food was plentiful.  This was Hook-Nose’s best chance to feed without having to fight for it.

He wriggled around in the sand, weak and dizzy.  Inch-by-inch, he dug himself to the surface.  With just his eyes and nose exposed, he glanced around.  Chaser gorged on an organ pile, slurping down and choking on oversized chunks.

Four-Fingers snatched a rib cage half and hurried back to Digger.  Apparently, they had formed an alliance.  There was plenty of unclaimed meat, but Scar did not approach.  Perhaps he was sitting this meal out.  His loss.  Spook’s absence was more alarming.

Brushing off sand, Hook-Nose rose into sitting position.  He was pleased he could do that now.  How about standing?  A bolt of pain through his back, and he collapsed.  No deal.  Sighing, he tried to crawl.  Possible, but excruciating.  He invented an awkward crouched gait that caused minimal hurt.  Fine.  This was workable.

Hook-Nose crept towards the scraps.  Chaser heard him and whirled around with a hiss.  Then stopped.  Tilting his head, he sniffed the air, not recognizing the grub before him.  Hook-Nose sat as tall as he could and reached for an unclaimed bone.   Chaser slapped his hand away.

Why!?  There was plenty of food.  No reason to fight over it!  Licking his teeth, Hook-Nose tried to take a different bone.  Chaser slapped his hand away.  Hook-Nose reached the end of his patience.  He gave a buzzing snarl that vibrated through his entire body.

Chaser pulled back ever so slightly.  Hook-Nose smirked.  So, Chaser was all bark.  All it would take to end this was—another grub erupted from the sand, distracting him.  Chaser’s expression shifted to panic.  He bolted to Digger and Four-Fingers.  They both gurgled with displeasure but accepted his presence.  The trio formed a tight pack.

No time to lose.  Hook-Nose fell on the scraps, stuffing his cheeks with every morsel of fat and marrow he could strip from the bones.  Even as Alpha approached, Hook-Nose kept eating.  The older grub dropped menacingly to all fours by Hook-Nose.  His buzzgrowl echoed through the pit.

Hook-Nose flinched.  He knew he should join the rest of his cohort.  That four sets of gnashing teeth would be enough to keep Alpha at bay.  <i>But he was starving</i>.  He would either get his fill now or be too weak to fight for it later.  He only needed a little bit more.

And maybe Alpha was like Chaser deep down.  Maybe his aggression was a buff.  Was that risk worth taking?

Watching Alpha from his peripheral vision, Hook-Nose cautiously retrieved another organ.  Alpha ripped the meat from Hook-Nose’s hand.  Crushed it.  Roared another buzzgrowl.  Flecks of gooey, sandy saliva spattered across Hook-Nose’s face.  Strike first, or strikeout.

Hook-Nose launched forward.  Biting.  Scratching.  Alpha easily threw him to the ground.  Pounced on top.  Struck his face.  Deep gashes in his cheeks.  Teeth ripped into his shoulder.  Hook-Nose snapped.  Stripped a cookie-cutter flesh hunk from Alpha’s arm.

Alpha reared back.  Hook-Nose pushed him off.  A high-pitched warning from Hook-Nose.  He had to make Alpha stop!  The older grub leapt.  Pinning him.  Biting him.  Teeth to neck.  Teeth to sand.  Another’s buzzgrowl.

Digger was on top of Alpha.  He threw her off, but Four-Fingers was on him next.  He struggled to his feet.  She fell off, scrambling away.  Hook-Nose stayed down.  Panting.  Bleeding.  Silently begging for the others to Take.  Alpha.  Out.

Digger and Four-Fingers circled Alpha, shrieking.  He returned call, advancing on Digger.  Scar jumped in from behind, knocking Alpha off balance.  Spinning around, grabbing Scar, pulling them both to the ground.  Shredding whatever skin met teeth.  Digger and Four-Fingers darted in and out.  Seeking openings.  Taking pot-shots.

At the edge of the pit, a higher family member quietly landed.  Digger noticed him.  Whipping around, she screamed.  Jumped at him.  He sidestepped, and she crashed into the wall.  Four-Fingers had enough sense to duck out of his way.

Started by the Digger’s collision, Alpha looked up from Scar.  Met the royal’s gaze.  Fear flashed through his eyes.  He dove at the sand, digging as fast as he could.  But not fast enough.  Torani easily pulled him up.  Alpha swiped blindly, but the failed prince caught his arm.  A last-ditch attempt break away and bite Torani’s throat.  Alpha was not strong enough to escape the royal’s grasp.

Torani forced the grub to his knees.  Grabbed his neck.  Crushed it.  As Alpha fought to pull Torani’s fingers away, he choked out a strangled buzzgrowl.  Torani snorted.  As if he could be intimidated by such a lowly thing.  Alpha’s struggling weakened.  Slowed.  Stilled.  Torani dropped him.

Frantic scraping down the pit wall announced Serana’s approach.  She jumped off too early, half falling on impact.  “What in the fuck!”  She was too close to Digger.  The grub snapped at her.  Serana pushed her away.

Running to the scrap pile, Serana threw armfuls of meat to the edges of the pit.  Digger and Four-Fingers bolted after it.  Chaser still reached the food first.  While they bullied him off, Serana stormed up to Torani.  “YOU CANNOT BE DOWN HERE!  We do NOT interfere!  You <i>know</i> this!”

“I don’t recognize this one.”  Torani pointed at Alpha.

Serana’s mouth twitched.  Her breathing went ragged.  A puny cough rumbled out of Alpha.  Serana dropped to her knees on top of him.  Her hand shot into Alpha’s belly.  Turned up into his rib cage.  He choked out drowning screams.  Jolted still.  Serana yanked down and out.  Her hand squeezed the heart firmly.  She dropped it with a disgusted expression.

Between pants, she mumbled.  “I have been telling.  Everyone.  About him.  For years.”

Torani raised his hands in surrender.  “I never said you were wrong.”

Rage.  Relief.  Horror.  Indignation.  Too many emotions crossed over Serana’s face.  She was on the verge of tears.  Torani glanced up anxiously.  No time to let her indulge in a breakdown.  He knelt next to her, pulling her into a rough hug.  “Hey, you’re okay.”  Sliding his thumb under her sleeve cuff.  Seeking that first spot on her wrist.  Before he could establish a connection, she shoved him back.

“I DON’T WANT THAT!”

“I don’t have a choice!”  Torani seized her wrist.  As she fought to free herself, stray sparks fizzled on his hands.  Finally, he connected and forced soothing pulses through her system.  Her struggling waned.  Tilting her head, he forced her to look into his eyes.  “It’s okay.  It will be okay.”  Serana growled weakly but eased into calm bitterness.  Torani let her go and looked away.  “We got him.  It’s done.”

“Great.  Wonderful.”  She sluggishly rubbed her forehead with both hands.  Froze.  Her hands dropped as she looked around the pit.  Mouthing numbers, she counted the remaining grubs.  “One’s missing.”  Her voice cracked as she said it.  “Another one is gone.”  Her gaze rolled to Alpha’s corpse.  “FUCK YOU!”  She kicked at the thing’s chest.  Once, twice—

Torani yanked her away from it.  “Pull it together before Demeko gets here!  If you can’t—”

“I know!”  One more close-mouthed scream.   Serana fell limp in Torani’s arms.  She looked up at him, shaking her head.  “Tell me, Torani:  If I’m not supposed to have emotions, <i>then why do I?!</i>”

He fidgeted.  “Well, why does the queen have wings?  She doesn’t need them.”

“She’s allowed to use them.”

“S-she’s the queen.”  Torani shrugged sheepishly.  “Look, I just don’t want you to get in trouble for what I did.”

“I won’t.”  She huffed and pushed away from Torani.  “Only three knights plus you.  We’ll all essential.  She can’t afford to punish any of us.  Rules are bullshit if there’s no consequences for breaking them, don’t you think?”

“That’s… I mean…”

The scraping of someone descending the pit.  Serana shot to her feet and wiped the sand from her trousers.

Torani stood up slowly.  “Can you handle yourself?”

Serana gave a curt nod.

Demeko hopped onto the bone sand with Rotero close behind.  Rotero marched ahead, scanning the scene and stopping pointedly in front of Torani.  “You both know better than to be down here.”

Serana said nothing.

Torani started, “I suppose you didn’t hear the screaming.”

“They always scream.”

“I know, but… Why do you think Demeko got you instead of taking take of this himself?”

Rotero glanced back to Demeko.  Demeko swallowed.  “They shouldn’t be fighting this violently.  Not yet.”

Torani pointed to Alpha.  “I don’t know how many broods old this is, but it wasn’t from initiation.  And it’s still aggressive.  It’s been killing the new grubs.  I know I shouldn’t be down here, but this is an extenuating circumstance.  Especially given what the queen wants.  We need as many chances at a knight as possible.”  Torani waved to Scar, who had sat up to lick his wounds, and Hook-Nose, who remained on his back staring straight up.  “If I hadn’t intervened, I think those two would be dead.

Demeko clicked his tongue.  “I only see four members of this brood.”

“I think that’s all that’s left.”

Rotero stared at the other royals in disbelief.  “We’re not a week in, and we’ve lost half of them?”  He glanced at the bloody grubs then Demeko.  “Are those two going to make it?”

Demeko went to Scar first.  Looked him up and down.  Nodded.   Stepping to Hook-Nose, he kneeled.  “You.”  He shook his head.  “This is not how I hoped we would meet again.”

Hook-Nose hissed at him.

“Well?”

Demeko straightened up.  “They’ll live if the other grubs don’t attack them.”

Torani cut in, “We can’t lose either one.”

“It’s the natural order.”  Demeko shrugged.

“We need the rest to survive!  It’s what the queen wants!”

Scar slowly climbed to his feet, face bloody, but otherwise fine.  He staggered to Torani and collapsed against him.  The knights shifted uncomfortably.  Torani ruffled the fuzz on the grub’s skull.  Red spots showed dimly along his neck and arms.  Placing a thumb on one of those spots, Torani took a quick read of the grub’s system.  He should have ascended already.  

Though Scar would not understand his words, Torani mumbled, “I can’t help you.” He thought better of that.  Gave the clickpulse, <I>CLIMB</I>.  Scar jerked away.  Stumbled towards the wall.  Pawed at it in confusion.  Torani hoped he would figure it out.

“What is he?  Can you tell yet?” Rotero asked.

Torani nodded.  “Just a hunter.  I’m sorry.”

Rotero eased out a sharp breath.  “I’ll explain this to the queen.  Perhaps you both acted in the nest’s best interest, despite breaking protocol.  We’ll see if she agrees.”

“<I>I</I> broke protocol.  Serana came down here to <i>stop</i> me.”

“And I made the choice to help.”  Serana held up her bloody hand.  “I’m not afraid to face the consequences for that.”

Torani almost argued that Serana was pushed to act.  That she had warned them all about the bad grub.  It was not her fault that she made an irrational, emotional decision to exterminate it after Torani had left it weak but alive.  “And it is expected that she, as a knight, would assist me.  You can’t ignore that.”

“I am not the judge,” Rotero said.  “That is a discussion best had between you and the queen.”

“Understood.”

“After you then.”  Rotero waved for Torani to climb up.  Torani sensed mistrust in the motion, but complied.  Serana followed.  Though last on the wall, Demeko outpaced everyone to return to his duties above the pit.

At the queen’s balcony, Torani heaved himself over the railing.  His useless wings fluttered as if they could help him.  Turning back around, he held out a hand to pull Serana up the last few feet.  He tried to offer the same help to Rotero.

The head knight took the longer path up the wall and stepped down.  Sparing a moment to smooth the wrinkles out of clothes, he said, “Wait here.  I won’t be long.”  He disappeared into queen’s chambers.

Serana eased back against the railing, eyes closed and arms crossed.  Torani leaned over to watch the workers repair the door to the hunters’ barracks.  He hoped that would distract him from his thoughts.  It did not.  Only dealing with them would resolve them.  In a whisper, “Hey, I’m sorry by the way.”

“Hm?”

“About earlier.  I don’t enjoy forcing you to feel things.  Or, I guess, <i>not</i> feel things.”

“You didn’t have a choice.”

“That’s...”  He flinched.  That <i>was</i> what he had said.  “In the moment, I knew I had to do it.  But now…”  Some half-formed rant about Vaeilentha, about the way she had treated him, crossed his mind.  “I guess it’s been bothering me for a while.  I don’t like pulsing family members.  Not even the hunters.  And they want it!  Then again, maybe that makes it fine for them?  I don’t know.”

“It’s probably fine.”

Torani rubbed the back of his neck.  “Do you really believe that?”

“Are you asking for my <i>feelings</i> on a subject?”

“Sorry.”  Torani buried his face in his hands and repeated, “Sorry.”  His arms dropped to his sides.

“This isn’t the time or place for this conversation, you know?”

“I guess not.  But the point is, I think I <i>did</i> have a choice.  And I made the wrong one.  And it didn’t even help!  So, I won’t do that again, okay Rana?”

Serana raised an eyebrow.  Torani flinched.  He had not intended to use his secret pet name for her.  Before she could call him on it, the queen’s chambers opened.  Rotero marched out, turned to the wall, and started climbing down.

Serana gave a confused shrug.  “D-does the queen not want to see us?”

“Indeed, she does.” Azehralia strode onto her balcony.  Serana dropped to one knee, and Torani bowed his head.  The queen waved off the formalities, pulling Serana back to her feet.  “Always so much fuss!  Not that I don’t appreciate it, but it’s not necessary when we’re only here for a quick chat.”  The queen’s amused expression faded.  “Though I supposed this isn’t a light matter.

“Now, let me be clear: I discourage making decisions that impact the family’s foundation without my input.  However, I agree that this was a situation that required prompt intervention.  So, thank you for making that call correctly, Torani.”  Her hand reached out to touch Torani’s neck.  The reward pulse that shot through him would have brought him to his knees if he had not held onto the railing.

Weakly, he mumbled, “It’s my highest pleasure to serve the best interests of the family.”

“I know.  And, in the service of that goal, I must also inform you of your mistake.” She pulled her hand away.  Torani was unsure whether that made him feel relieved or desperate for more.  It had become so complicated since Vaeilentha had— 

“I’m not pleased you ended another family member’s existence.  It wasn’t necessary.  It’s ambiguous whether that grub had done anything wrong.  The two of you could have easily restrained it.  It should have been brought to me.  Alive.”

“Understood,” Torani nodded.

“It won’t happen again,” Serana whispered.

“Indeed.”  The queen sighed.  “I hope to not put us in this situation again.  Clearly, I made a grievous error in selecting one of my candidates.  Once I see his face, I will likely remember what, if anything, was unusual about him.  Unfortunately, selection is a learning process, even at my age.”

Cautiously, Serana clarified, “He was from an older brood.  Before mine.”

After a moment of hesitation, Azehralia nodded.  “Quite a while ago then.  That is… somewhat comforting.  But I’ve said my piece on the matter.  Both of you understand how to handle situations like this in the future.  You’re dismissed.”
