
Torani waltzed into the nest pleased with himself.  Recently, he had obtained permission to hunt for the family.  Technically, that was a task below his rank, but it made him feel useful.  In the nest, all he could do was loiter by the cage like a knight, waiting for some ambiguous threat that never appeared.  His time was better spent hunting.

And tonight he had hunted well.  There was a live one on either side of him, electrically sedated.  Additionally, a fresh corpse lay over his shoulders.  Three bodies.  He had outdone himself.  This was a victory that justified his value to the family.

His joy waned as he realized the sconce was unlit.  He squinted in the darkness, hoping to find one of the knights.  Someone was climbing into the pit.

“Serana, hold on!  I need a hand!”

“Torani?  You made it?  Didn’t the sun come up a few minutes ago?”

“Yes…  But I was almost in the tunnel by then.”  Torani’s exposed skin was angry red, telling a different story.  At least he had gotten in before it started to blister.  The burning itch would heal by the time he woke up the next evening.

Serana hauled herself back over the edge and huffed at him.  “You know, the hunters return on time for dinner or stay out.”

“They also go in pairs but come back with only one body.  If they’re lucky.”

“The way you talk, maybe you’d be better off stuck as a hunter.  Teach those idiots how it’s done.”

He smiled, but the idea stung.  It was something he had considered.  How much more comfortable he might have been with that limited existence.

“Then again, I don’t remember you bringing back much of <i>anything</i> as a hunter.”

“I had… other priorities.”

“That’s one way to put it.” Serana paused to examine Torani’s catch.  “Nice haul anyway.  And we need it.  I haven’t seen Seno in a while.  I think she’s not coming back.”

Seno?  The name meant nothing to him.  “That’s too bad.”

She poked at the corpse.  “Also too bad that this one’s only good for the workers.”

“Sometimes, they deserve nicer cuts.  Don’t you think?”

Through a yawn, “No opinion.”

“You just want more for yourself.”  Serana rolled her eyes.  Taking a live one by the waist, she walked to the cage.  Confused, Torani followed.  “Aren’t you going to get Demeko?”

“Nah.”

“But the keys...” 

Serana pulled them out of her pocket, jingling them in his face before undoing the locks.

“Demeko gave you the keys?”

“He didn’t want to wait for you.”

“That sounds… so in character for him.”

“Hey, he gave you the benefit of the doubt that you would come back with something.  I was ready to give up on you!”

“That is… true…”

As Torani puzzled over Demeko’s actions, Serana shoved the first victim into the cage.  Then the second.  Released from the electrical hold, the first one came to.  While Serana redid the locks, the mumbling of “where am I?” and “what happened?” began.  Quiet precursors to the screaming that would fill the day.  

Serana pulled the corpse off Torani’s shoulders, marched to the pit, and dropped it over the edge.  It landed with a sickening thump on the worker’s spiral.  “Bon appétit,” she whispered to no one.

Torani stepped to her side.  “Thanks for waiting on me anyway.  The last thing I wanted to do was to wake Demeko while trying to keep a hold on those two.”

She shrugged.  “I told you.  Demeko told me to wait.  I was just doing my job.”

“Good.”  Mixed relief and disappointment.  He knelt to crawl into the pit.

“Torani?”  He stopped.  “Can we talk?”

“I suppose...  This late though?”

“Only this late.”

The word “why?” caught in his mouth.  He knew the answer: because there was no one else to listen in.  “Is this a good idea?”

“Don’t you want to talk to me?”

“Of course I want to talk to you.”

“Now<i> that</i> sounds like an order.”  Serana crouched next to him.  Torani laughed anxiously.  “What?”

 “I get what you mean, but I don’t like what you just said.”

“Why not?”

“Because…” If she willingly chose to engage in a secret rendezvous with him, that was better than doing his bidding.  At least, he would prefer that.  But it also put her more at risk of—

 “This is what I’m supposed to do.  <i>Remember?</i>”  She smiled coyly.

“<i>I get it</i>.  I’m asking you not to talk like that.”

“Whatever you wish, prince.”

Torani cringed.  The queen would not have approved of this conversation.  He expected Serana to take that seriously.  Instead, she sounded like she was winning a game.  Under that smugness, she understood the gravity of such defiance, right?

And then there was that other nagging anxiety.  His fear that, deep down, Serana’s words were true.  That she was only doing this because she knew it would please him, sarcasm and all.  That she was paradoxically stepping out of line to stay in line.  In other words: it was his fault this was happening.

“I… I think we shouldn’t do this.  We can’t.  I want you to go to your den and sleep.”

“The fuck—?  No.”

Her tone grated on him.  “<i>That</i> was an order.”

Serana’s mouth hung crooked.  “You’re joking.”

“I mean it.”

“I see.  We only break rules on <i>your</i> terms then?”

“Look, I want you in your den!  NOW!”  Torani stood and assertively stepped away from her.  His command echoed in his mind.  Grimacing, he hunched his shoulders and crossed his arms.  Without looking back, “Serana, it’s not that I don’t enjoy talking to you.  I do!  But I don’t want to be responsible for pushing you out of place.  It’s bad enough I don’t have one anymore.  I don’t want you to lose—” When Torani turned around, Serana was gone.  Weakly, he finished, “Good.  Thank you.”

Behind him, voices mumbled terror to one another about the dark.  About what had happened.  Would happen.  Their hysteria rising.  A victim from another hunter roused enough to start explaining the full horror of their circumstances.  Torani crawled over the edge as one started to cry.

Quietly, he stepped onto his den’s landing.  Serana’s door slammed closed, and he flinched.  A halfhearted sigh.  He slithered into his little hole in the wall.  Beyond the short tunnel, was a small, rough-cut, spherical chamber.  A sea of feathers, fur, and cloth scraps constituting his bed half-filled it.  He buried himself beneath them.

He had done the right thing.  Right?  Exceeding her privileges.  Inventing loopholes.  Talking back.  These were bad for Serana.  Yes.  He needed to help her stop.  To avoid inspiring that behavior.  As much as her transgressions appealed to him, it would only hurt her in the long run.  If she stayed in line, she would be happy and well-adjusted.  Those feelings he lacked.  Yes.  He had made the right decision!

Unless her misconduct had <i>nothing</i> to do with him.

Was it so hard to believe that a fiery personality like hers included a rebellious streak?  Afterall, her sarcasm and bluntness was nothing new.   Torani experienced the brunt of it she was mentoring him through knighthood.  If this was who she was, then what was the harm in enjoying it?  In fact, maybe indulging her would help her stay in her place outside of their private chats.

Or would that makes things worse?  He had no idea.  Staying in place was not his wheelhouse.

Most of Torani’s existence had been spent under Vaeilentha’s spell.  He doubted he built anything as a worker.  His sparce hunter memories aligned with what Serana had said: he been on few hunts.  All were failures.  Even as a knight, he had openly defied Demeko to amuse the princess.  His existence was built on ignoring his instincts in exchange for every high she gave him on his way to princehood.

But that was over.  And the only princely things left about him were his dud wings and the burning desire to do anything to help the family.  A decoy goal to satiate the impossible drive to start a new one.  This family required him to finally fit into <i>his place</i>.  Assuming he ever figured out what that was.

A huff.  Wallowing in self-pity only distracted Torani momentarily.

He had set the course when he sent Serana away.  There would be no back peddling.  She would get better.  Recommit herself to her rank.  And he would become a good example for Serana and everyone else. That was what a good... whatever-Torani-was would do.

He kept telling himself that until he fell asleep.  He never managed to convince himself it was true.
