Sleep was elusive that day.  Torani counted the hours by the cage’s commotion.  Cries for help.  Damning the captors.  Long silence as they prayed for a higher power to intervene.  Despairing moans when they lost hope in that futility.  The bitter, second silence.  Acceptance that nothing would change.

The sun was still setting when Torani dragged himself out of the feather pile.  He opened his den’s door.  Flopped onto the balcony.  Prepared to roll off.  Movement to the right caught his eye.  Several feet away, Serana ascended the wall.  She froze when she saw him.  It looked like she had not slept either.

“Evening,” Torani said.

She parroted back, “Evening,” then resumed climbing.  A neutral greeting Demeko would have approved of.  Serana was clearly furious.

Torani anxiously hurried after her.  Without lighting the sconce, she took her post by the entrance tunnel.  Her back to the cage.  To Torani.  A dim glow from the outside world illuminated her silhouette.  He waited in uncomfortable silence behind her, hoping she would turn around.  She did not.

Carefully, he stepped to her side.  “I’m sure you understand why I sent you away last—”

She spun on her heels.  “You’re not allowed to talk.  Understood?”

“Excuse—?”

“No.  Shut up.”

The side of Torani’s mouth twitched back, revealing his teeth.  “You will not—”

“Yeah, I will.”  She hooked her fingers through her belt loops.  “You see this?  I’m <i>defying</i> you.  Are we in agreement that that’s what’s happening right now?”

“Serana—!”

“Yes or no?”

“WHY!?”

She jabbed his chest.  “<i>You</i> are not responsible for me.  Whether it’s what I did to the bad grub or when I grace your undeserving ass with my unfiltered brilliance.  If I step out of line, you don’t have the right to take credit for it.  So, stop it!  Got it!?”

He reset his jaw.  “I think you underestimate the influence I have over you.  As a higher member of—”

“No, you overestimate it.  Otherwise, I couldn’t defy you right now, could I?  Or do you like getting yelled at?”

He licked his teeth in disgust.  “I can’t say I do.”

“Then go tattle on me to the queen or shut up and deal.  Pick one.”

“So, you expect me to keep this a secret.”

“That’s your choice.”

“And what happens when the queen asks me about it?  I can’t lie to her.”

A snort.  “So, don’t give her a reason to ask.”

“It’s not that simple.  She—!”

Serana turned to the exit.

“Why are you being like this?!”  Torani raked his hands through his hair.  “Why are you so desperate to step out of place?”

“Why are you so desperate to make me fit into it?”

“Because we’re supposed to!”

“And neither of us do!  You’re just lucky to not have one.  You can do whatever the hell you want.”

He laughed bitterly.  “No, Rana, I had a place.  I just wasn’t good enough for it.”

“Well, I guess I’m not good enough for mine either, <i>Rani</i>.”  She cracked her knuckles.  “And my hunter name was <i>Sera</i>, not <i>Rana</i>, by the way.”

Torani stood in mute fury as the horror washed over him.  The cage caught his eye.  As if food was somehow the answer here.  Sure, he could lose himself in the primal instinct to consume.   At least until he was executed for violating the queen’s privilege to first choice.

In a begrudging whisper, “Would you rather I called you Sera?”

She clicked her tongue as she considered it.  “Nah. I like Rana better.  It rings.  Rana and Rani.  Doncha think?”  She turned back around.

“So, you don’t hate me?”

“I need you to get over yourself.”

A sigh.  “I’ll stop taking responsibility for you, okay?”

“Berries!  Now, if I could just get Demeko to shut up.  He’s <i>so</i> sure you’re a bad influence on me.  Fuck Demeko.”  A moment of hesitation.  “You’re not going to tell him I said that, right?”

“I… don’t think I have the courage to say that to him.”

“Good.  <i>Fuck Demeko</i>.”  She hummed approvingly.  “Rani, it would feel so good to say that to his face…  He <i>would</i> turn me in to the queen though.”

“At least you have some sense of self preservation.”

“I’ve made this far, haven’t I?”

“I guess…”  He pinched the bridge of his nose.  A part of him still seethed that she dared speak to him like this.  A greater part was relieved.  After all, if her behavior was not his fault, there was no reason for him to fix it.  “What did you want to talk about last night?”

“It’s treasonous.”  She sang each syllable.

“I think we’re past that.”

She chuckled.  Her amusement faded as she spoke though.  “When the queen chewed us out over the bad grub.  Why do you think she so upset we killed it?  There was no reason to keep it alive, right?”

“That… Maybe she just wanted to do the deed herself.”

“What difference would that make?”

“It’s one of her children.”

“What does that have to do with anything?”

“Everything.  You can’t—” Torani rethought insisting that she would not understand.  “You don’t see the family from the same perspective higher royals do.  Your life is about the queen.  About how the family doesn’t exist without her.  From our perspective — hers — it’s the family that makes her.”

“Okay… but if it was going to die, it was going to die.”

“Now, you sound like a knight.”

“Shut up, Rani.”  She shifted uncomfortably, and her tone dropped.  “Was she really going to kill it?”

“Yes?  Why are you asking?”

“’21 strong.  The largest we’ve ever been.’  That’s what the queen said at initiation, right?”

“Yeah?”

“That doesn’t add up.  I swear, we were bigger when I was a hunter.  We’ve been shrinking, not growing.  I think the queen lie—"

Crackling sparks and glimmering light behind them.  Serana and Torani turned to find Demeko dutifully igniting the sconce.  He rubbed the buzzing from his hands.  “Do you two enjoy standing in the dark?”

The onset of panicked voices from the cage.  A good excuse.  Torani quietly made his way to old knight.  “I didn’t want to wake them yet.”

Demeko opened the viewing slat to count the bodies.  “You brought back two?”

“Three.  But one was dead.  I had a good hunt.”

The knight nodded slowly, a rare, approving gleam in his eyes.  That was more satisfying than any reward pulse.  Demeko went to the back corner, where a bucket sat under a collection of dripping stalactites.   Taking it, he turned to Serana.  “Keys.”  She pulled out and tossed the keyring to him.

Torani remained in place, unsure whether he should continue talking to the knights.  Flapping wings and whooshing air to his right.  “I hope you hunted something decent, Torani.  I’m starving.” Vaeilentha shoved passed him to examine the cage.

Yes, she had always been permitted to violate the queen’s right to first choice.  No, Torani had never questioned that when he was her rising prince.  Yes, it felt unbearably wrong now.  He stepped towards the exit.

Demeko pointed with the keys.  “If you want the ones Knight-Prince Torani brought in, you have those two to choose between.”

“Excellent!”  Vaeilentha plucked the keys from his hand.  “Be a dear and fetch Kordi for me, would you?”

As always, Demeko’s poker face remained straight.  However, his hesitation spoke volumes.

Torani offered, “How about I get her?  Demeko should stay with the cage.”

“Silence, Knight-Un-Prince!”  The princess’s acidic tone vanished.  “Move along, Demeko.  I’ll even take care of the bucket for you.”  She relieved him of it.  Demeko quick-walked to the pit edge.  Torani tried to keep his mouth even, but he felt the frown forming.  Okay.  Time to leave.

“Torani, come here.”

He flinched.  How much trouble would disobeying that command cause?  A lot.  A whole lot.  He walked to the princess, stopping out of reach.  He wanted her to feel the cold distance separating them.

She gave him a wry look before opening the cage.  Rudely dropping the bucket with a splash, she tugged a woman to her feet.  The captive broke into shrieking.  Her male companion scurried up to help.  Vaeilentha whisked her meal away before anything could be done. 

Fangs to neck.  A brief struggle.  The woman fell silent and limp.  Her breathing dropped to the barest whisper.  Vaeilentha ripped out her heart, swallowed it, and dropped the body.  She sat down, contently licking the blood off her fingers.

Moments later, Kordi shot out of the pit.  She dropped to her knees and threw her arms around the princess.  “Ilen!  Good evening!”

“My rising prince!”  She fussed over Kordi’s hair and smoothed her clothes.  Meanwhile, a weary Demeko pulled himself over the edge.  He wordlessly returned to his position by the cage.  Vaeilentha gave Kordi a playful shove towards the kill.  “You feed next, darling.”

“Ilen, don’t tease me.  You can’t mean that.”

“But I do.  Eat.” 

Kordi needed no further invitation.  She threw herself onto the corpse.  Tore the rib cage open.  Shoved her whole head in to choke down meat like a starved piranha.

Torani swallowed a growl.  At initiation, he had been happy to share with her.  He still ate before she did and get the better cuts.  This breach of privilege got under his skin.  The knights looked equally displeased.  He smiled bitterly.  This must have been how he made them feel when he was the rising prince.  No wonder Demeko was so cold towards him.  The words slipped out, “Is this really necessary?”

“Yes,” Vaeilentha said.  “And you won’t question it again.”

“All I’m saying is that, perhaps, the feeding order is what it is for a reason.”

She made a show of considering that.  “I hate to admit it, Torani, but when you’re right, you’re right.  Demeko, Serana, take what you need.  Kordi can’t eat all of this by herself anyway.”  The two knights remained in place, exchanging unsure glances.  “Why the hesitation?  Did you two feed already?”

“Of course not,” Demeko replied.  Serana remained silent.

“Then do so!  The nest’s safety requires that our knights be strong and well fed.”

Demeko gave Torani an unreadable look before kneeling beside Kordi.  Serana drifted over as if in a trance.  Kordi pulled away as the knights surrounded her.  She looked back to the princess for reassurance.  Vaeilentha waved for her to continue eating.  Seeing so many lower family members put above him made Torani feel sick.

The princess stood and wandered over to him.  Whispered, “This is why you don’t challenge me.  It forces me to push you down.  Remind you what your place really is.  Besides, if you insist on acting like a hunter, then you should eat in turn.  <i>After</i> the royals.”

“Speaking of which, I should get a move on.” Torani tried for the exit.

Vaeilentha caught his shirt collar and spun him back around.  “Soon.  Not yet.”

His eyes glazed over as he watched Kordi and the knights eat.  Kordi finished first and dismissed herself to hunt.  The knights reduced the corpse to worker’s scraps and returned to their posts.  Relieved that their feast was over, Torani asked, “May I leave now?”

“Eat first.  You missed dinner last night.  We can’t have you hunting on an empty stomach.”  Vaeilentha motioned at the hollowed-out body.  A pile of bones, tendons, and fat.

“There’s nothing left.”

“It’s plenty for any lower family member.  You don’t have a real rank anymore, ‘Knight Prince.’  By my estimation, that makes you a grub.  I think you should be grateful to eat something this fresh before the workers have had their pick.”

Torani stared stupidly at the corpse.  Then Vaeilentha.  Then Demeko.  Surely, he would speak up.

This request broke the natural order.  It rejected the queen’s stance on Torani’s rank.  Demeko had the age and respect to claim that Vaeilentha’s actions defied queen’s will.  It would mean something if he said it.  Torani silently begged Demeko to look at him.  The knight gazed forward into nothingness.

“Do you need incentive?” Violent sparking in Vaeilentha’s hand.  “I know you prefer pretending you choose to follow orders, but if this is too much for you to stomach…”

“No.”  Torani knelt by the scraps.  A slow breath.  One last fruitless glance at Demeko.

“It’s an open offer, Torani.”

Picking up a long bone, Torani snapped it open.  He scooped marrow out with his teeth.  That gritty mess was his best shot at choking something down.  The taste of remnant blood almost made it palatable.  Until he chewed through it.  He may as well have been eating sand.

Swallowing was a monumental task.  His stomach turned over, but he succeeded in keeping it down.  He glanced up at Vaeilentha.  Her point had been proven.  Surely, that would be enough to appease her.  No such luck.  Her gaze remained fixed on him.

By the time she grew bored, Torani had stripped the marrow from all the long bones.  With a lazy stretch, she patted him on the head.  “You keep eating as much as you need.”   She tossed the cage keys to Demeko.  Her wings opened, and she glided to the queen’s chambers.

Torani dropped a bone and rose to his wobbly feet.  Shaking, he blinked hard.  Dizzy.  Dazed.  Royals were not designed to eat grub scraps.  He lurched to the side.  Demeko’s hand shot out to steady him.  Torani grabbed onto the cage for better support.  He stayed there.  Panting.  Not sure if he was going to puke.  If that was even possible.

Demeko gathered the remains and tossed them piece by piece into the pit without looking.  The sudden shrieking proved that at least some bits went straight to the grubs.  He returned to his post without looking at the failed prince.

Once the nausea had passed, Torani glanced at Serana.  She pointedly faced the exit.  Her fists were balled.  Demeko looked stoic as always.  Torani cleared the bile from his throat.  “Do you agree with her, Demeko?”

No response.

“Do you think I no longer count as a royal?”

A long pause.  “My opinion is irrelevant.” He sounded dissatisfied with his answer but added nothing to it.

“It matters.  If you thought Ilen was defying queen’s will, you would have stopped her.  That is your place.”

“The queen wills that we keep Princess Vaeilentha happy and under control.  We do not argue with her unless her orders are overtly destructive to the family.  That did not qualify.”

“So… you don’t consider me a member of the family.”

Demeko’s voice came out strained.  “I neither said nor implied that.  My apologies if it sounded like—”

“It’s okay, Demeko.  I’m not angry.  You’re not in trouble.”

Demeko clamped down on the rest of his defense.

“What did you mean then?”

“What she demanded was not destructive.  Only uncomfortable.”

“I… understand.”  He was less sure whether he believed it.  But there was nothing gain from pushing Demeko.  All Torani wanted was the hunt.  The fresh air, wet grass, endless stars, and—

“Is it worth it?”

Torani did a double take.  Had the old knight had truly dared to whisper a question that had nothing to do with his duties?  “Is what worth it?”

“This.  The queen’s grace.”

He looked down.  What a nice way to ask if dying at Vaeilentha’s hands would have been better.  “It will be once Ilen is gone.”

It looked like Demeko might challenge that statement.  He fidgeted with the keys instead.
