Timid tapping on Torani’s door.  He buried himself further under his feathers.  Whatever whoever wanted could at least wait until sunset proper.

Unless it was Serana.

He sat up.  Then slouched.  Serana’s knock would have been stronger than that.  Any of the knights would have pounded on the door.  He eased back in.  Even the hunters would have made an assertive ruckus.

He straightened again.  If a worker dared to approach this den, to leave the spiral, then whatever required his attention was urgent.  Dragging himself into exit tunnel, he opened his door.  “Evening.”  Empty air greeted him.  Where had—?

Chanting, “I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry—"

He looked down.  A worker cowered flat on the landing.  Nope.  No idea who she was.  Not surprising given her status.  “It’s all right.  I know you wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t necessary.”

She quieted, but stayed low, refusing to meet his eyes.

“What’s your name?”

“Von.”

“So, what’s brought you up here, Von?”

“A grub is blocking our den.”

“A grub is…?”  Torani sighed.  This seemed like a <i>knight</i>’s problem.  Not a duty for a prince or… never mind his own title.  That said, did he trust the knights to have the gentle touch this situation required?  No, it was good Von had come to him.  Whatever her reasoning.  “I’ll take care of it.  Go on down.  I’ll meet you there.”

Von breathed a thanks then scrambled down the wall.

Torani slithered onto the landing.  As usual, he pushed himself forward just enough to slip off the edge.  Plummeting onto the rope bridge below him.  Waiting until it stilled.  Standing and stretching out his puny wings as he walked along the bridge.

He scanned the spiral for Von.  She had already made it to the bottom.  Other workers lay around her with their tools.  That was a bad sign.  Torani did a headcount.  The whole caste was there.

At the rope bridge’s end, Torani hopped off the platform and glided to the spiral’s top.  From there, he climbed down one walkway layer to the next.  The workers perked up and knelt respectfully as he reached them.

“Did you all sleep out here?”

Quiet yeses.  An extremely bad sign.

Hurrying to the spiral’s end, he descended the last feet of wall to the worker’s den.  Quietly, he entered the tunnel.  Around the bend, he found the grub lying comfortably on his back.  He had curled into a half-moon shape following the curves in the rock.  In the dark, Torani was unsure whether the grub was already cocooning.  He hoped not.

Cautiously, he reached out to touch the grub’s elbow.  It felt sticky.  So much for that hope.

The grub’s eyes shot open.  Whirling around.  Lashing out with teeth and claws.  Torani backed off.  Hook-Nose jumped for him.  Torani dodged aside.  The grub catapulted out of the tunnel, nearly shooting into the pit.  Shrieking, he scrambled backwards.

Torani grabbed him.   Restrained him.  Pinned him stomach-down to the ground.  Stopped.

He had not touched those faint red patches, but he could already feel the grub’s unstable current.  Evidence of its strength.  The creature beneath him was clearly destined for higher than worker.  How high though?

Torani wrapped his hand around the grub’s wrist.  A few sparks to would be enough to sense what underdeveloped bits were floating around in there.  He eased out a breath.  This one was a rising royal.

The grub turned his head and clamped down on Torani’s arm.  Chewing.  Cracking bones.  Torani choked out a clickpulse.  <I>FREEZE</I>.  The grub did so.  With his teeth still buried in Torani’s flesh.  

Between harsh pants, “It’s okay.  I won’t hurt you.”  The words would mean nothing, but the electrical pulses that went with them sure had an effect.  Hook-Nose stopped fighting.  He did not release Torani’s arm, however.

Hissing through his teeth, Torani maneuvered into sitting position and pulled the grub onto his lap.  In the candlelight, the slick sheen on Hook-Nose’s skin shimmered.  Everywhere Torani had touched him, dents and ragged tears broke the slime coat.  Negligible damage.  It would repair itself as the full cocoon formed.  Torani pushed the grub away enough to check his back.  He flinched.

Brown bloody swirls swam through the gel, like paint drops on a soaked canvas.  Soupy gashes where skin and dissolving fabric had torn away.  The grub had attached himself to the tunnel during the day.  Pieces of himself had ripped off when he attacked.  Torani swallowed.  At this stage, there could be real consequences from these injuries.  There was nothing he could do about it though.

Worming his fingers around in Hook-Nose’s mouth, he jacked it open to free his arm.  That done, he stood and lifted the grub over his shoulder.  Calling up to the workers, “I’ve got him.  The den is clear.  Go about your night as usual.”  Tiny thank yous as the workers slipped by him to get materials.

Awkwardly, Torani climbed down.  Carrying his and the grub’s weight on his injured arm was excruciating.  One bone fragment kept snapping between two positions.  At least it was mostly functional.

Reaching the ascension layer was a relief.  He squinted in the dimness, struggling to make out the wall’s features.  No luck.  He felt around blindly, moving to the left.  When he finally found a cocooning den, he dropped into it.

Against the back wall, a nook was carved into the perfect angle for cocoon formation.  Torani carefully laid Hook-Nose on it.  As he pulled away, the grub reached out for him again.  Without aggression this time.  He probably wanted the calming pulses to continue.  Torani gave a pained smile.  Now that the grub was in place, it was best to leave him alone.

Then again, what if he crawled away?  Maybe Torani could wait a while longer.  Just until the grub was completely settled.  He would reattach better and heal sooner if he were calm.  

Torani placed a hand on Hook-Nose’s neck.  He sat on the ground and eased out a slow breath.  Caring for lower family members felt good.  Right.  Like what his place was <i>supposed</i> to be.

Thinking about that sparked a biting reminder: <i>start the new nest already</i>.  Why was he compelled to do impossible things?  It made him bitter that he was never given a chance to try.  Why were they so sure of Azehralia’s judgement that he was insufficient?!

He could read the rising family members.  Only princes could do that.  Sure, his wings were useless, but he got around well enough without them.  That deformity was a minor inconvenience.  The new nest would be close to the old one.  Azehralia expected that.  Deeming him unworthy based on his wings was wholly unfair!

Except that was <i>not</i> his only problem.

Real princes had electrical potency on par with queens.  They could shatter solid rock on touch.  His puny sparks were barely on par with Demeko.  His system was stunted.  Immature.  Even if his blood were strong enough to start the next family, his progeny might be sickly.  Or it might be so weak that it would irreversibly block Vaeilentha’s ascension to queen.

There was nothing to gain from trying.  And everything to lose.

Fresh tackiness on the grub’s skin.  Hook-Nose was cocooning.  Time to leave.  Torani retracted his hand and stood.  Took one step away.  Turned around and leaned against the wall opposite the grub.  Stared at him.  Why did Vaeilentha get to raise one—two counting Kordi—while Torani get nothing?  This one was unsuitable for her anyway.  He was damaged.  And Torani had a name in mind for him.

He looked down.  That desire was beyond even a prince’s privileges.  Still.  He wanted nothing more than stake his claim on the rising royal.  <i>This could be the start of the new nest.</i>

That thought was suicide.

There was still grub goo in the worker’s tunnel.  He should clear that out for them.  Torani forced himself to leave the den and climb back to the spiral.

When he reached the landing, Torani looked up.  The workers were bringing materials to Demeko’s door.  The knight had been silently complaining about it for weeks.  Staring daggers at its squealing, rusty hinges every time he opened it.  The queen must have noticed his wrath.  That or the squeaking bothered her too.

Perhaps, the workers had started so early that it would keep Demeko trapped inside.  Some extra sleep might make him more pleasant.  The sconce blaze roared to life above the pit.  So much for that dream.

Torani went to the tunnel’s bend, kneeled, and scooped up a handful of grub goo with his good hand.  As far as he was aware, the gel could not be reused for anything.  It was trash.  Walking to the landing, he tossed it into the pit.

Maybe the remaining grubs would eat it and gain some vigor.  He hoped so.  He did not want his grub to be the only royal, or Vaeilentha would—Torani stopped.  The grub was not his.  Listless, he held another handful of dripping goo over the pit.  He stared blindly into space.  Tonight would be a good one for hunting.

“Torani, what are you doing?”  The failed prince looked up.  Serana sat on the end of the spiral, looking down curiously.  “Is that grub slime?”

“Yeah.  One got up here.  I moved him down.”

Serana joined him.  “I see he thanked you.”  Torani rotated his damaged arm.  “That doesn’t look good.”  She took his wrist.  He winced and pulled away, but she held tight.  “If you didn’t like that, you’re really not going to like this.”

She pushed his broken bones around.  When they popped back into place, he mouthed a “fuck.”

“Perfect.  Hold still.” She disappeared into the worker’s den and returned with wood and cloth scraps.

As she wrapped the cloth around his arm, Torani stared at ascension layer.   He said, “Ilen always told a story from when I was cocooning.”  Serana momentarily paused.  “She said the day after I ascended, another grub came up.  Found the same den.  Went after my spot.  Apparently, I killed it.  She told me that was when she knew.  I was so strong.  She was certain I would be her prince.  Instead of, you know, whenever I first called her by a hunter name.”

“I can’t speak to when she ‘knew,’ but I remember cleaning up the mess.”  She finished the bandage by tying it tight.  Torani winced.  “Why bring it up?”

“The grub was in the worker’s den all day.  He had started cocooning.  He shredded his back when he came after me.”

“So?”

“What if that was why I failed.  Because my cocoon got messed up, and I had to start over.”

Serana measured different scraps of wood against Torani’s arm.  “I don’t think it’s the same thing.”

“Why not?”

“Rani, your grubself may have won that fight, but you were mangled.  Sounds like the one you moved only got scraped up.”

“He was one of the ones the bad grub attacked.”

Serana selected a wood piece and wrapped it in place to make a splint.  “Best I can do.”

“Thanks.”

“And let me clean this up.  It’s my job.  You go on.” Serana tapped back into the tunnel before he could respond.

He stood there, his gaze alternating between his splint and Serana as she walked back and forth.  Finally, he said, “I think you’re not telling me something.”

“Maybe trust that I have your best interests in mind?”

“Meaning?”

“You worry too much.”

“Now I really want to know.”

Serana huffed.  “Of course you do.  Look, the grub you moved was a little messed up from the start.  He had <i>tiny</i> kink in his spine.  We think he was dropped or something.  But I fixed him.  It’s probably fine.”

“So, I’m right to be worried.”

“Rani, you’re the only one I’ve ever seen fail.”

“Other than the bad grub.”

“It’ll be fine.”

“He’s a royal, Rana.  If Ilen takes him, and he fails—” Torani crossed his arms.  “You know what happened to me.  You know she wants me dead.  If he doesn’t make it to knight…”

Serana put a hand on Torani’s shoulder.  “He won’t fail, okay?  And if he does, well, he’ll probably be out of the nest by then.  You won’t have to see it.”

“That doesn’t make it better, that makes it worse!”

“I don’t know what to tell you.  There’s nothing you can do about it.”  Serana shrugged.  She went back to disposing the grub goo.  When she finished the job, she stood pointedly in front of Torani.  “I’m going to my post.  You should report the grub to the queen.  Stop.  Sulking.”

Torani smiled self-deprecatingly.  “Sorry.  You go on ahead.”

Serana walked to the wall, reach up as if to climb, then glanced back at Torani.  She ruffled her hands through her hair and turned back around.  “Look, if it’s any consolation, at least he ascended on time.  I’ve never seen that happen.”

“What do you mean?”

“I overheard Rotero talking to the queen once.  Grubs are supposed to ascend in three-four months.  Not a year or longer.  Only royals are supposed to take that long to reach their final rank.”

“But that’s not…”  Torani did not remember far enough back to know for sure.  The memory fragments he had felt like more than a year’s worth though.  And they only went back to being a hunter.  He was certain Kordi was well into her second year.  “How old are you?”

“Who cares?  Just listen: I bet you they’ve been taking so long because the bad grub was eating their food.  And them.  Good thing we took care of him, right?”

The argument that fighting for food was the natural order swam in Torani’s thoughts.  One extra mouth to feed should not make so much of a difference.  Especially when it ate the competition.  “Y-yeah.  You’re probably right.”

“Of course I am!  You’ll see when the rest come up.”

“If any others make it…”

“Rani, enough with the pessimism.   A grub ascended on time, and he’ll be a knight.  This is a good thing.  It’ll be fine.”  She returned to the wall.

“Rana—”

Serana’s expression kinked into an impatient frown. 

“Never mind.  It doesn’t matter.”

For a moment, she looked suspicious but shrugged it off.  As she climbed, Torani did the math.  Three knights, the princess, himself, the rising prince, and the new grub.  Seven royals total.  Less than one per decade.  Perhaps there had been others in the past, but Torani doubted it.

Seven was such a small number.  Combine that with Serana’s claim that the queen had lied about the nest being at its largest.  Mix in the grubs’ sluggish rate of ascension.  And, finally, add in Torani’s own failure.  It was an ugly equation with a terrifying result.

Then again, the queen had admitted selection was difficult.  Even if it were easy, her choices were limited to what the hunter’s brought back.  Their offerings could only be as good as food stock.  The queen had to make do with so much unpredictability.  To her credit, there had been a royal in all her recent broods.  For all Torani knew, the remaining grubs might be royals.  Maybe the family was emerging out of a rough patch.  Maybe they were growing stronger.

Or maybe the queen had put everything into the last few broods, because she knew each one could be her last.

The nest suddenly felt sickly.  Dull.  What would happen if Azehralia could no longer initiate new family members?  How long would they last?  Torani remembered three hunters disappearing in his short span of memory.  That class was the limiting factor on the nest’s size.  Too few hunters, and the family would have to cull itself.  If the queen stopped producing grubs altogether…

The heavy doors to the queen’s chambers banged open.  Rotero leaned over the balcony to survey the workers.  The urge to hunt overcame Torani.  He slunk up the wall, hoping the head knight had not seen him.  He would report the new rising royal to the queen later.
