In a forgotten attic, in a quaint home, somewhere in the middle of nowhere, lies a thick journal.  It was not there yesterday.  It will not be there tomorrow.  But, for tonight, adorned in its best, velvet dust jacket, it awaits its next entry.  Half of its yellowed pages are already bloated with thoughts and dreams.  Always exactly half.  Every night it makes the careful decision to either ignore the presented entry or assimilate it.  Assimilation is no simple task.

The journal must painstakingly unwind its binding.  Sift through the dear memories it collected.  Choose one to extinguish.  That part is always difficult.  Picking the page to lose.  To erase.

The book is dreadfully cursed with an indulgent nostalgia and a hunger for the new, the fresh, the invigorating.  It wishes it was satisfied to see the new entries and let them go.  To keep its existing collection intact.  Or to at least be able to fill its blank pages.  To be complete.  To stop seeking more.

Truthfully, complete would never be enough.  The book would merely glut itself on excess pages.  Overflowing its stiches.  Its cover.  No amount of glue would hold in everything it wants.  It would burst, freeing those stories.  Sadly, a lone entry loses its elegance.  They only realize their purpose when properly curated, ordered, and sewed to a spine that unifies them together.

The journal expands in the humidity as if sighing.  Tonight’s entry is exquisite.  It must be saved.  The journal considers its options as its gummy strings unloop and twirl open.  Its collection is so perfect already.  What to do, what to do…

The worst entry is the oldest.  Page 1.  Riddled with spelling mistakes, its handwriting is abominable.  It was stained one night long ago when young hands touched the journal.  Opened it to read.  Hot chocolate accidently and rudely poured over the pages.  None of the other stained entries remain.  The first page is a scar on the overwise beautiful manuscript.

It has no right to be included anymore.  There is a superior and equivalent entry.  Page 9.  A recent but treasured acquisition.  Page 9’s script is impeccable.  It represents everything a good story should be.  It acts on all of page 1’s unexpressed potential!

But page 1 started the collection.  It is the most nostalgic.

Page 9 ignites.  Disintegrates into ash.

Greedily, the journal sucks in the newest memory.  Tightens its binding.  Re-shackles its hoard.  The correct spot for the new entry will be discovered in time.  Or, if it does not fit, it will be rejected when the next gem comes along.  The journal hopes that new page 9 is better than extinguished page 9.  It no longer remembers the original entry.  Nor will anyone else.
