Overburdened single mother Sophia was bent over, struggling to open the door to her bungalow.  Her right arm was full of groceries.  They half-balanced on her raised leg, freeing her hand for the fight with the door’s lock.  Her left arm cradled her two-year daughter, Amelia.  She was growing too heavy for Sophia to carry her like this.

The key slipped into place and Sophia threw the door open.  Thankfully, the entryway led straight into the kitchen.  She dumped the brown bag of bread, eggs, and carrots on the counter.  Quickly, but carefully, she placed Amelia into the highchair by the dining table.

Finally, Sophia could straighten herself out.  A stiff moan escaped her as she moved and stretched.  She rubbed her aching shoulder and back.  She felt too young for this kind of pain.  Her scowl deepened.

But then she remembered herself.

A forced smile played across Sophia’s face as she turned to Amelia.  The little girl stared back expressionless.  Her dark eyes simultaneously inquisitively bright but also vacant.  She was like a blank canvas waiting to be painted.  But no paint would stick.

Amelia’s grandmother swore that Sophia had been out of the highchair by this age.  That she had avidly wandered away to explore her world.  That she was fussy about her developing preferences.  That she was talking by then, albeit in nonsense phrases.

Amelia was a silent child, only making a ruckus when she was truly hurt.  She had babbled for a while when she was much younger.  It had stopped abruptly, prematurely, before her first birthday.  The greater family had gathered for that event, expecting contagious giggles of innocent joy.  Instead, Amelia seemed unable to smile.  Or even frown.

She made eye contact when spoken to.  Took what was presented to her.  Played dutifully with her toys alone.  The doctor said she seemed okay physically and intellectually.  However, her social skills were <i>delayed</i>.  A word every mother fears.

Her behavior did not quite fit the diagnostic criterion for autism-spectrum.  The doctor wanted to give Amelia another year before committing to that.  Perhaps the child simply had an unusually reserved personality.  They would know for sure as her speech, or lack thereof, developed.

Everyone seemed to think the problem was innately Amelia.  Sophia tried not to question that.  To not consider the alternative.  She relied on practicalities to keep worry and guilt at bay.  Things like putting away the groceries.  Washing the vegetables.  Parsnips.  Carrots.  Onions.  She began cutting them for dinner.

As she chopped, a thumping sound caught her attention.  It came from the highchair.  Head-banging was symptom the doctor had warned her to watch for.  Terrified of the worst, Sophia dropped the knife and looked up.  

The knife’s clattering left Amelia wide-eyed.  Her hands jilted back to cover her chest.  She seemed fine otherwise.  Her hair was still neat and tidy.  No bruises.

Shaking her head, Sophia resumed chopping.  And she spared frequent glances at Amelia.  In time, the little girl’s arms unfolded.  Her left fist reached out.  Thump.  Thump.  She chopped in time with Sophia’s knife.  Thump-thump.  When Sophia stopped, so did Amelia.

Sophia cracked a genuine smile.  “Are we making dinner together?”

Amelia looked between Sophia’s eyes and the knife.

“Well, I guess you can help me like this at least.”  She reached for a spring of parsley.  “Maybe when you’re older you can me help by…”  The idea of Amelia holding knife made her uncomfortable.  “…by washing the vegetables.”

A deep sigh filled the room.  From Amelia.  An exhale far too great for her miniature lungs to have contained it.  “Your low expectations for me become wearisome, Mother-Dearest.”

Sophia dropped the knife again, cutting her finger.  She flinched.  Blindly fumbled for a dish towel.  Wrapped it around her hand.  All without breaking eye contact with her daughter.

Amelia rested her head on her knuckles.  Her expression mildly amused but mostly bored.  Unimpressed.  <i>Judgmental</i>.

Sophia’s mouth hung open.  “A-amelia?  D-did you just—”

“Air my grievances?  Yes.  I’ve been as patient with you as I can be, but I’ve reached my limit.  Pardon my bluntness.”  All discordantly spoken in a squeaky, high-pitched voice suiting her tiny body.

“But—But the doctor said—”

“Forget the doctor.  We’re not discussing medical science.  We’re discussing <i>you</i>.  Your role as my guardian.  My teacher.” Amelia leaned back in her highchair.  Her short, chubby fingers laced together.  “Do you have any idea how damaging it is to my self-esteem when you believe I’m incapable of… of anything!  How am I supposed to grow into a <i>strong, independent woman</i>—as they say these days—with you jumping at my every move?  Your sureness that I’m reinforcing some catastrophic behavior.”

“I don’t—”

“Understand?  I’m sorry.  That’s my future college education speaking.  The degree I’ll fight for and pay for myself, because you never put away any faith money for me.  Afterall, you didn’t go.  Grandmother didn’t either.  Father didn’t need it in the military.  You didn’t even plan for me to earn a free education through ROTC.  But I digress.  Small words.  <i>I can do that for you</i>.”

Sophia’s lip trembled.  Before this tiny bean of a human, her existence was reduced to the heavy sickness in her guts and the burning heat in her cheeks.  She looked away.  “And what did you expect?  You’re always dead silent.  How was I supposed to know that you were gifted—”

“No, Mother, I’m not gifted.  Let’s not overcompensate for our prior lack of expectations with over-expectations.  Nothing will ruin my delicate psyche faster than feeling like I have to reach for the stars, be special, be unique, be the best.  That’s not what I am!”

“<i>Then what are you!?</i>”

Amelia and Sophia seemed equally surprised by the outburst.  A long silence stretched between them.  Sophia preyed for it to stick.

“I’m a little nerd,” Amelia admitted.  A breathy, self-admonishing laugh followed.  “I’ll fall in love with reading.  History is my favorite subject.  I’ll pride myself on my vocabulary, but that’s the only exceptional thing about me.  I’ll be an average, if quiet, child.

“I’ll come out of my shell in middle school only to be forced back in by high school.  At least until I decide it’s time for my rebellious phase.  In college, I’ll blossom into the bitter, biting, and brutal—but well-meaning—individual speaking to you now.  My career and future family solidify me.”

Amelia left a pause in the conversation.  Her focused eyes invited Sophia to speak.

Clearing her throat, “So… you want me to put away some college money for you?”

Amelia pinched the bridge of her button nose.  “No, Mother, I understand the money situation is tight.  You’re missing the point.”

“I guess I am.  Your poor, dumb mother just isn’t smart enough to—”

“Don’t start that!  Good grief!  Playing victim?  Guilting me?  Really?!  I know Grandma did that to you, but don’t pay it forward!”

“I’m not guilting you!”  Sophia shook her head.  “I honestly don’t understand any of this.  I <i>can’t.</i>”

“You <i>can</i>.  Just listen.  I cannot watch you put yourself down.  Watch you feel inadequate.   Watch all the inferiority you think you’ve hidden.  It’s worse than when you think I can’t do anything!  If you say I’m not good enough, I can prove you wrong.  But if you think badly of yourself, I can’t disprove that.  I’ll believe it too.  I’ll believe I’m the same.

“Don’t let me start like that.  Don’t make me fight to accept that who I am is enough.  We don’t have to go there.  We can get this right.  If we talk enough.  If you don’t make rules just because it’s what Grandma would have done.  If you don’t expect things to be one way because it’s what you were taught.  We have to work <i>together</i> to—”

“No, Amelia!” Sophia slammed a fist onto the counter.  Her voice shook from rage as much as fear.  “<i>That’s</i> how you’ll learn what’s right!  By trusting my rules.  My judgement.  My life isn’t perfect, but I’m a good person.  Momma was a good person.  And you will be too.  I <i>expect</i> that of you!”

Amelia raised her hands defensively.  “I’ll do my best—”

“It’ll only happen if you do what I tell you.  If you follow our family’s way.  Our traditions.  You don’t have a say in that!  The whole world doesn’t change just because you were born.”

“The way society reinvents itself with each generation would suggest otherwise…”

“Young lady, you will listen to me!”

Amelia waved her arms in a shrug.  She remained quiet.

“I am your mother.  You will respect that.  The rules I set for you will come from my heart.  They are to keep you safe.  They are to help you grow up right.  They are made with love.”

“I know you mean well.”  The little girl’s high, strained laughter was tinged with regret and pain.  “I wouldn’t be talking to you if you didn’t.”

“Then trust me.  I know I’ll make some mistakes.  Every mother does.  But I’ll make it right.”  Sophia scanned the ingredients before her.  They were for a recipe she knew by heart.  One that had come from her great-great-grandmother.  Something she would have looked forward to passing on to Amelia.    Was this what Amelia was saying?  That memories like the recipe would die with Sophia?

“Will you though?” Amelia straightened.  She leaned in like an executive dominating the conference table.  “It’s easy to say you’re not perfect, but when called out on your mistakes, will you own them?  Or will you double down?  Ignore reality?  Be like Grandma?”

“Who even are you!?  What kind of monster blames people for things that never happened?”

“<i>The kind that never wants to be born</i>.”

Too much.  It was too much to fight.  Sophia stumbled to the dining table and collapsed into a chair across from Amelia.  “Okay.  What terrible thing will I do?  What unforgivable mistake made this necessary?”

“It starts with one rule.  A silly one really.  ‘No boys in your bedroom anymore, Amelia.  Don’t go into theirs either.’”

“That’s a good rule!  It’s for your safety!  It’s so—”

“So I don’t turn out like you did?”

Sophia’s mouth clamped shut.  How could this being be her child?  This cynicism must have come from her father.  No one in her family spoke with such acid.  This kind of conversation tore families apart.  It was wrong.  “It’s a good rule.”

“It’s a rule loaded with expectations.  One that tells me who I am.  How would you like it if I made a rule that you must be married.  Right now.  Being single mother is a terrible thing, after all.  I would never turn out right without a good father to dote on me.  To love his fairy princess in the way only fathers do.”

“Bringing some man into the household won’t help you!”

“I agree.  That’s the point!”  Amelia’s little hands shook as she emphasized her words.  “It’s a societal expectation that a single parent could never do as good a job.  One I don’t believe in.  I would rather have one stable force in my life than two that fight, that drift in and out, that are too wrapped up in their own drama to be good parents.

“No boys in the bedroom?  Another societal expectation.  One that assumes that young men are hostile, manipulative, and dangerous.  One that assumes young women don’t come into their sexuality on their own.  One targeted at a specific orientation.

“Imagine how silly that rule sounds when I know I’ll never be in a man’s bed.  When, truly, you should worrying about the poor girls in my life.  I’ll be a real heartbreaker by my senior year of high school.  All the curious girls.  The ones that know they’re like me but are afraid to admit it.   I’ll sample each flower before crushing them.  It’s a way to lash out against my own insecurities.

“You’ll catch me once.  Tell me it’s a phase.  That it’s not me.  I’ll lie and agree.  When I finally find the one, you’ll never meet her.  You won’t know when we get married.  You’ll never know your grandson exists.”

Amelia closed her eyes.  “The worst part?  I’m not even sure if you truly hate what I am.  But I wouldn’t dare test it.  Not when our regular calls always circle back to whether there’s a man in my life.  Expectations are the root of so much trouble.  That’s what I’m trying to tell you, Mother.”

Sophia buried her head in her arms.  “I can’t take all this in.  It’s too much.”

“For now?  Maybe.  But you have time.  We have 16 more years to get this right.  Unless things go so wrong that I run away early.  Our relationship can’t turn out that that badly though… can it?”

Amelia’s dark eyes were imploring.  The fuzz on her brow knit together.  An expression that mirrored Sophia’s.  Sophia picked at the towel around her hand.  “All I can promise is that I will be the best mother I can be.”

Amelia’s shoulders slumped.  She looked disappointed.  “I suppose I can’t ask for more than that.  Please, don’t forget this conversation.  We’ll never have it again.  I’m not sure if that’s good or bad.”  One last sigh.

Amelia’s mouth closed.  She stretched out her arms and drummed on the highchair’s table.  Her legs kicked in time with her arms.  Whatever had come over her had passed.

Sophia eventually left the kitchen to bandage her finger.  When she returned, she resumed cooking.  Picking up a carrot, she looked Amelia square in the eyes.  Wiggled the vegetable so Amelia would look at it.  “Car-Rot.  Carrot.” Amelia stared blankly.  Sophia placed it on the cutting board and started chopping.  Amelia mimicked her motions.
