I was born and raised in a po-dunk nothing town on the edge of swampland.  Population 1,246.  At least that’s what the sign said when I was a kid.  Last I looked, it was 948.  And that’s a generous estimate.  

We have just enough to get by.  One school.  A clinic.  A local grocery store connected to a big-chain pharmacy.  The pharmacy’s convenience store gets most of the business.  There was a time when we had a McDonald’s.  It closed after the highway ramp project shut down.

Po-Dunk is a half mile from a highway raised over the swamp.  That said, getting into Po-Dunk requires taking the exit 20 miles north of town.  After that, you wind through local roads that end in tunnel of timber-fodder pines to reach town center.  Lumber was the reason why the town was founded.  

Anyway, if you happen to know about the exit 5 miles south of us, you might wonder why I suggested the north exit.  Until you look at the backroads.  Starting south, you have to darn near leave the state then circle back to get into town.  The trip takes three hours.  If you really got to come to Po-Dunk, take the north exit.

I think it’s obvious by now, but let me say it: Po-Dunk is isolated.

But we almost became a real hub once.  There’s a big slab of foundational concrete a mile into the forest.  It’s a spooky place.  Quiet.  Empty.  Dead.  When the birds and crickets sing out there, it echoes.  Townsfolk with any sense steer clear of the place.

The kids like to make up ghost and alien stories about The Slab to scare one another.  One Halloween, a particularly enterprising young man spraypainted “I believe” in massive letters across the middle of it.  That earned him a year of white washing the town hall, fire department, and police department.  Given the strange signs he made with his paint strokes, I don’t think it set him straight.

The Slab’s true story is that it was going to be a warehouse for one of the big companies of the era.  I forget what they were called.  They don’t exist anymore.  At the time, though, it was expected to bring a lot of jobs into town.  Enough to justify our own exit.

I was ten at the time, and my house was on the highway side of town.  From my bedroom window, I watched the lumber guys clearcut the land for the road.  The gravel path they laid down for the project is still there, overshadowed by wild, new growth trees.

Every day, the dump trunks rolled in, deposited their load, and left.  A line of ants building a mountain.  All that clay and rock was meant to solidify the swampy ground.  To build temporary ramps to help the workers place the pillars for final ramp.

They had barely started construction when Big Company abandoned ship and left us with the alien landing pad.  At the time, they were hush-hush about their reasons.  Since Big Company’s gone now, I bet they were going bankrupt.

That left us with this awkward structure that juts 20 feet off the raised highway.  They blocked it with concrete guard rails, so no one accidently drives into the sky.  We call it The Balcony.  It’s a favorite spot for the teenagers to smoke and make out on weekends.  We had a couple suicides jump there too.

What interested me as a kid, though, was that hill underneath it.

When the dump trucks stop coming, I turned that rubble pile into my playground.  Climbing up it.  Rolling down it.  Digging into it.  Sometimes, I pretended I was an archeologist uncovering the cursed mummy’s tomb.  Others, I was the Barbarian King of High Mountain, guarding the sacred entry to Valhalla.  I always like to add some magic to the setting.

I was impressed by this big hunk of dirt.  I now know it was trucked in from a quarry a few hours north of town, but back then I was sure it came from some mysterious, far away land.  Like Nebraska.  Or Virginia.  Or even New Mexico.  I was a bit of a sheltered kid, what can I say?

When I was twelve, a rockslide on the dirt pile took me down.  Broke my leg.  I spent the night out there while the whole town searched for me.  They checked The Slab but didn’t think to swing by the other construction site.  A teen saw me the next morning from The Balcony.  She pointed and laughed at my sorry state, but was kind enough to tip the police off to my location.

A helicopter lifted me to the nearest hospital.  When my parents got there, they were as happy to see me alive as they were furious.  First, my dad said I was grounded.  Once he saw the cast, he realized the redundancy in that.  My mom innocently suggested I help her cook instead.  A sort of family community service.  I hope I never peel another potato or chop another onion for the rest of my life.  Needless to say, I was banned from playing on the dirt pile.

I forgot about it after that.  Finished primary school.  Tried the college thing, but that didn’t work out.  My senior year, I finally realized that I hated my political science major.  Or maybe it was that I was sick of watching political theatrics.  That the idea of becoming one of them put a rancid taste in my mouth.  I came back home to start my own shop.

As a swamp town, fishing is a big deal in Po-Dunk.  All the guys go out at least a few times a year.  And I mean <i>all</i> the guys.  One of my buddies, Roy, hates the taste of fish, the look of fish, even the idea of touching a fish.  And yet, there he’d be.  On the boat with Edgar, Ted, and George.  His unbaited line listing in water.

One-time, poor Roy caught himself a green trout.  A big one.  The other guys had to reel it in and land it for him.  They made him take a picture with it.  His cringe in the photo is priceless.  That night, the boys had a feast in Roy’s honor at the local diner-bar, Mattie’s.  And yet, Roy still goes fishing with them.

Can you believe that we didn’t have a bait shop?

There had been one when I was a kid.  Old Man Thompson ran it from the first floor of his townhouse.  It was perfectly placed halfway between the water and Mattie’s. When he passed away, no one took over the job.  In fact, Thompson didn’t have a will or any known relatives.  The property ended up in the state’s hands.  I found that out at townhall when I asked how I could buy the place.

What I didn’t know, was that our local counsel was peeved the state owned a piece of Po-Dunk.  Also, the oldsters on the board missed the convenience of buying their bait and tackle locally.  Waiting for it to come in the mail was a drag.  They hated digging bait worms out of the mud even more.

I was a dumb, leg-breaking kid with dreams bigger than my wallet, but the council had a talk with my dad about it anyway.  He convinced them I was harmless and meant well.  With my parents help, they forged paperwork to make it look like my family was related to Mr. Thompson.

They took their case to court, claiming we should inherit the old bait shop.  They knew better than to fight for Mr. Thompson’s little bit of savings.  The great state Louisiana had no vested interest in owning a rundown shack in Po-Dunk.  It ended up in my dad’s name.  He titled it to me.  Said that was the last gift he would ever get me.  A man doesn’t make himself a liar to the state lightly.

For Christmas that year, I got the big tank I needed to keep live shrimp in stock.  The gift tag had both my parents’ names on it.

The bait shop was a fixer-upper.  I took out a loan in July to get the important things done.  Repainting.  Replacing some rotting floorboards.  Paying an electrician and plumber to get the place operational again.  Buying bait stock.  Thankfully, my mom covered my meals.  I think she knew that, otherwise, I would be eating canned soup and toast every night.

Three months later, <i>Mr. Thompson’s Fishing Emporium</i> reopened for business.  To start with, I only had minnows, worms, and crickets.  I told everyone that, if they bared with me, eventually I’d have everything.  Tackleboxes and accessories, rods, nets, you name it.  My first customers were council members.

By the end of year one, all the guys in town came in.  If only to impart their superior fishing knowledge.  And to insist on products and brands I needed to get in stock.  My loan was paid off by the end of my second year.

I wasn’t going to become a millionaire as the guy running the bait shop, but it paid the bills.  Kept me busy.  Made me an important part of the community.  That was a benefit I hadn’t anticipated when I got started.  I’m famous as the guy who can tell you anything about fishing but is a terrible a fisherman himself.  What can I say?  That’s what happens when you’re always working during the best catching hours.

Running the shop is pleasantly monotonous.  On weekends, I open the early for the morning twilight fishers and stay late for the evening twilight fishers.  I’m busy on-and-off most of the day.  Monday-through-Friday is calm though.  My evenings are always spent at Mattie’s.

I suppose that’s where my trouble began.  At Mattie’s.




The dive’s full name is<i> Mathilda’s Staircase Pantry</i>.  No one remembers who Mathilda was.  The name is as old as the town.  An original resident.  Unlike the current owners.  In violation of our falling population statistics, newcomers Danny and Felice took over the joint.  He works the kitchen while she works the bar.

We were a little suspicious of them when they moved in.  Danny’s persnickety.  Felice is gruff.  But they’re good people.  Felice’s grandmother was born here before city life seduced her away.  Felice was a city girl seduced by her roots.  Her husband Danny went along for the ride.

Before they took over, Mattie’s was looking sad.  Felice overhauled the place.  New chocolate brown upholstery.  Softer lighting.  She heavily revarnished the bar counter.   You can still see the original wood and its flaws, but it’s smooth to the touch.  The place looks worn in and cozy these days.  All her changes leaned rustic.  It makes you feel like you’re back in early America.  Back when this town was along the western front.

Anyway, I looked over tonight’s menu while sipping a beer in my usual spot at the bar counter.  The special had caught my eye, but I was wary.  I’ll give him credit.  When it came to his wheelhouse, Danny had it right.  Deep frying, grilling, BBQ.  Anything in those categories he could make, and it was good.  He should have been happy with that.  Instead, he pictured himself a rising five-star chef.

He liked to experiment.  And, shame on me, he was good at making his experiments sound like heaven.  Crawfish, fresh catch, and alligator sausage gumbo with hush puppies and grits.  How could he do that wrong?  If Danny had gone into food marketing, he would be rich.

Sliding the menu across the counter to Felice, I scrunched my face into a fake grimace.  “I’m gonna do it.  Trying the special.”

“You sure, Rich?”

My expression faded.  “Is it that bad?”

She snorted.  “Nah, Danny did good tonight.  His grits always leave something to be desired, but…”  She reached under the counter.  Butter packets appeared before me stacked five-high.  “I got you covered.” She slid the saltshaker over too.

“But the gumbo’s okay?”

“Based on his momma’s recipe.  He stuck to the basics for everything but the meat.  You know he handles meat well.”

“All right, I’m sold.  We’re doing it.”

“Want another beer while I’m at it?”

I swirled my nearly empty glass.  “I should wait until the food’s ready.”

“Won’t be long.” Felice scribbled some undecipherable symbol on an order pad and ripped a sheet off.  She turned to the kitchen door, an awkwardly shaped thing sloped under a staircase to the attic.  Shoving it open, she tacked the order slip to a corkboard.  “DAN, I GOT RICHIE’S ORDER!  THE SPECIAL!”

“THANK YOU!”

When she returned to her post at the bar counter, she leaned in.  “Hey, it’s Danny’s birthday this weekend, but he hates gifts.  If you like your dinner any, ham it up so other folks will try it.  It’ll make his night.  He doesn’t need to know I had a hand in it.”

“I’ll see what I can do.”

Felice left my side to chat with the other patrons.  Soon, there was a beer in every newcomer’s hand.  By the time Danny came out with my meal, the usual crowd was all there.  Luckily, another two dinner orders came in.  Otherwise, Danny would have stayed around to chat as an excuse to wheedle feedback on his cooking out of me.

I was halfway through my bowl when I overheard a conversation from a nearby table.  Three folks: Roy, his much younger half-brother, Tony, and Sally, Tony’s out-of-town girlfriend he met online.  It was weird to see Roy and Tony together.  Losing his dad had hit Roy hard.  Seeing his mom remarry to have another kid when he was just reaching marriageable age himself weirded him out.  He was happy for her, but her new family never felt like his.

“I get that,” Tony insisted.  “But what are the pipes for?”

Sally picked at her iced tea.  “To let out methane.  It’s so the hill doesn’t explode.”

“It’s not a garbage heap,” Roy said.  “It’s the start of that exit we never got.”

Tony threw up his hands.  “Exactly!  So, what are the pipes <i>for!?</i>”

Roy bought himself time by sipping his beer.  His eyes met mine.  Waving to me, “Richie, come here.  If anybody knows about it, you do.  Got any ideas?”

I had a feeling I was in for more than a short consultation.  I picked up my dinner and joined their table.  “About what?  The dirt pile?”  Sally and Tony turned their complete attention to me.  I shrugged.  “It’s a pile of dirt.”

Roy huffed.  “Yeah, we know.  You know what the pipes are for?”

An image of big sewer pipes formed in my mind.  There was nothing even remotely resembling that by the hill.  “What pipes?”

Before Roy could explain, Tony cut in.  “<i>The</i> pipes.  They’re everywhere.  It’s like the top of Pinhead’s skull.”

I gave him a blank stare.

“You know, the demon guy from <i>Hellraiser?</i>”

My stare continued.

“Come on, the first movie came out in the 80s!”

The awkward silence hung.  I had a decent idea what he was describing from the name though.  “There’s no pipes on the dirt pile.”

“There definitely are.”

Roy took over, thumbing at Tony and Sally.  “These kids were looking for a spot to do unholy things—”

“Roy, no!  That’s—”

“—and they wandered into the old construction site.  If they had seen the pipes from the Balcony, I’d go with what you’re saying.  I didn’t think there were any pipes in the hill either.  But they were up close.  Young and stupid doesn’t make you see things.”

“Thanks.” Tony crossed his arms.  Sally, for her part, seemed thoroughly amused.

“There are no pipes.”  I shrugged.  “If there were, I wouldn’t have broken my leg back then.  They would have been good handholds.”  Kid me also would have had some wild imaginations about what they were for, but there was no need to bring that up.

Roy suggested, “Maybe they got added after you broke your leg?”

“Construction was already two years dead the last time I was there.  Who would have gone back and stuck a bunch of pipes in?”

Tony yelled, “That’s what I keep asking!”  There was a momentary hush.  Brief glances at the group.  A sheepish smile from Tony was enough to resolve it.  The old guys went back to their conversations about fishing, work, and bad tv.

Gently, I asked, “Tony, why are you getting so worked up about it?”

“There’s steam coming out of them.”

“What?  Oh.  Like fog?  It’s cold out.  The earth is warmer—”

“No, it’s steam,” Sally interrupted.  “It’s hot.  Smells a bit too.  That’s why I still think they’re methane releases.”

“There’s nothing but dirt and rock in the pile.”

“What if it’s trapping stuff that was already in the swamp?  If the state thought it posed a hazard, maybe they put the pipes in as a safeguard.”

Roy shook his head.  “The state hasn’t come in to do nothing in my lifetime.  If they had, someone would have nosed their way into that business.  The whole town would have grumbled about it for years.”  He laughed at himself.  “Now Tony’s got me all nerved up.”

I stirred my spoon through the gumbo.  “How about I take a look tomorrow?  Business is pretty much dead around noon.  Not sure if I can add anything to what Tony’s saying, but I know the terrain better.  If there’s anything else out of place, I’ll find it.”

“I think Tony would appreciate that.”  Roy nudged him.  “Yeah?”

“Yeah, sure.” Tony’s brow furrowed.  He glanced at me.  “Look, be careful.  If someone put that stuff in secretly, it’s either a weird joke or… or there’s something bad going down.”

“Knowing the terrors we got in high school right now, I’d put my money on a weird joke.  Maybe it’s a shrine to Pinhead.  Teenagers tend to think all that demonic nonsense is cool.”

Tony smirked despite himself.  He had been that kid a decade ago.

“Also, between you and me, Danny did good tonight.  If you’re hungry, this is the night to earn your badge of honor for trying the special.”  Directed at Tony, Sally, and Roy.  Spoken loud enough for everyone else to hear.  You’re welcome, Felice.




True to my word, I went to the construction site late morning the next day.  Strange that I had not swung by the place since I was kid.  Not even by accident while wandering aimlessly around town.  Walking the gravel path there was peaceful.  Over my boot’s crunching, birds twittered and called and sang with abandon.

If I closed my eyes, I could pretend I was lost in an old growth forest.  Untouched by the rise of America.  Perhaps even untouched by the native population before that.  A primordial jungle without the concept of good or evil.  I laughed at myself that I still had such an active imagination.

Still, this scrubby rebirth replacing the clearcutting was beautiful.  Between young cypress and palmetto, cordgrass claimed sunny spots of ground.  Fragile, yellow and brown or white butterflies flitted from one wildflower to the next.

The dirt pile’s sudden appearance ahead surprised me.  I had expected to see it long before I reached it.  The new growth had hidden its presence.  Grass and moss capped much of the pile’s surface.  Larger rocks were still visible, but otherwise it was as green as everything else.  A reminder of man’s futile planning.  A monument to nature’s power.

As long as you ignored the pipes anyway.

The hill was studded with a grid of poles.  I understood why Tony was so concerned.  This wasn’t some kid’s prank.  The alignment and spacing of the pipes was too methodical.  Too perfect.  Professionals had done this.  Which brought me to Tony’s question: <i>Why?</i>

Stopping at the hill’s foot, I tested how stable it was.  It seemed like the foliage had locked the loose dirt in place.  That was good.  If I broke my leg again, I would hear about it until the day I died.  Cautiously, I ascended the hill.

When I reached the first pipe, I jiggled it.  Or tried to.  The warm, metal rod was immobile.  Its base deeply rooted in the earth.  On a whim, I sniffed its steam.  Chemical sweetness.  It reminded me of machinery, but I couldn’t place where I had smelled something like it before.  I moved on.

I tested the stability of each pipe I passed.  All rock solid.  No one could have done this with just a hammer and brute strength.  This would have required heavy equipment.  A massive drill or pile driver.  A truck to bring in the piping.  How could someone have done this in secret?  How did the perpetual flock of teens on the Balcony not discover the project?

From the hilltop, I saw deep into the swamp.  Ancient cypresses sat on their thrown of roots, shadowing the black water and duck weed rafts.  Regal Spanish moss sashes adorned their limbs.  That was the real primordial jungle.  Romantic, majestic, and eerie.

Sloshing water called my attention to the hill’s backside.  An alligator tail disappeared into the water.  Note to self: if I fall again, fall down the frontside.  I caught my breath.  Maybe I had no choice in avoiding the backside.

Several yards from where the gator had been laying, stood a sewer entrance.  I rubbed my eyes and looked again.  The metal structure was clear as day.  And I had never seen it before.  Okay.  I had to know where it led.

On my way down, I kept my eyes peeled for more gators.  To enter the sewer, I would have to turn my back to the water.  I wanted no surprises.  Except a different kind of surprise met me at the entrance.

Rusty bars blocked the tunnel.  Fluid dribbled between them and into the swamp.  This was a wastewater exit, not an entrance.  The chemical smell was stronger here.  Whatever was under the dirt pile, it was polluting the swamp.

I looked down at my thick, heavy, waterproof boots.  My gaze returned to the rusty bars.  The plan forming in my mind was either my ticket in, or my ticket to months of physical therapy.  I slammed my boot’s heel into one of the bars.  Rust flaked off it as it dented.  I regarded the damage.  A decent proof of concept, but I would need to clear two bars to get in.  Stomping the bars into submission would be murder on my knees.

Scanning the bank, I found a hefty rock.  That would have more power than my rubber soles.  I fetched the rock and lined it up to strike.  It took three hammering blows to break through the first bar.  A few more hits to bend it aside.  The next bar was less rusted, but after a few minutes I managed to crack its middle.  With my entrance ready, I sat on the top of the tunnel to catch my breath.

I knew going in there was a bad idea.  The sewer’s existence was more than enough to get the council involved.  Maybe even the state.  If someone was hiding toxic waste under our hill, we would need the back up.  Worse yet, the stuff coming out of there could be affecting our health.  If so, we needed the lawsuit for it over before everyone died of cancer or mesothelioma or whatever else.

Curiosity held me there.  If the state or the feds took over, the whole town would be kept in the dark.  There would be no information until it was written in some forgotten, dusty legalize.  Redacted.  Veiled in jargon.  This was my home.  If something going on here, I intended to know about it.  I stepped into the sewer.

Little sunlight filtered in.  Perhaps it would have been wiser to go home and get a flashlight.  I kept that plan at the back of my mind.  For now, I would see how far I got.  The sewer bottom was caked in spongy moss.  It squished under my boots, but there was no standing water.

Holding my hands out in front, I reached a wall.  I felt left and right.  I was at a T-junction.  Both options seemed about the same.  I randomly chose right.  Keeping my left arm out, I looked for passages to take me deeper.  As soon as my hand fell off the wall into another opening, I took it.

This tunnel fell at a subtle decline.  It began to curve.  I whispered to myself, “Right.  Left.  Around.”  The pattern I would have to reverse later.  I stepped through a puddle.  Then another.  Steady trickling echoed faintly through the sewer.  The air was cool.  Still.  Stagnant.  How old was this place?

As the path continued to spiral down, the water level rose to my heels.  The air grew warm and humid.  The chemical smell heightened.  A metallic taste caught my tongue.  Whatever was down here, I was nearing the heart of it.

I paused.  The smell coming from the gas releases above made sense to me.  Gas rises.  But water follows gravity down.  Why was the sewer constructed like this?  Whatever was in here would in stay here unless the swamp surged three feet to fill the sewer.  Assuming this maze had a “lowest point” to fill from anyway.

Maybe whatever was in here was supposed to <i>stay</i> in here.

I frantically scanned the darkness for ghouls and goblins.  Stumbled in a circle.  My imaged terrors scared me more than the real threat of getting lost.  Suddenly, harsh breathing echoed off the metal walls.  It was so close to me.

I realized it was my own panting.

Feel darn foolish, I centered myself with a deep breath.  Spit out a mouthful of metallic saliva.  Just go a little further.  Just enough to be able to tell everyone what’s going on down here.

The tunnel flattened out ahead.  By that point, I had no sense of where I was under the dirt pile.  A hint of color caught my eye in the dark.  A nearly invisible blue tinge to the water.  I scanned the walls and squinted ahead.  No sign of a light.

As I moved on, the water became bluer.  Staring straight down at the color pools, I wondered if it was the moss.  Maybe it glowed?  I had never heard of glowing moss.  Then again, I never heard of super-secret tunnel systems appearing in swamps.  I kept walking.  No.  The color was not the moss.

As the water grew lighter and bluer, the floor remained dark.  The light was from something in the water.  The moss reflected that hue before thinning out and disappearing.  The temperature kept rising until I was sweating.  When the waterline bowed outward, I knew I had entered a large chamber.

The water in the room center was so bright, that wave patterns reflected on the closed ceiling through hazy steam.  Under the water, I saw the silhouette of a large hole in the floor.  It was lined with stone bricks.  Cautiously, I approached it, keeping a healthy distance from the edge.

Whatever substance caused this light was coming from that pit.  One step nearer — Caught a cough.  Shook my head.  The steam irritated my mouth and nose.  One more step closer to peer down.  A dozen metal pillars.  Each ended in a wagon wheel brace fitting into some massive container.  Some sort of fan mechanism?  The braces were still though.  Neon blue beamed out from between the blades.

It was like — Another coughing fit shook me.  There was a machine down there.  Some massive — More coughing.  This time so bad it brought me to my knees.  The water filled my boots.

I wrapped both my hands around my face, my neck.  My throat ached.  My nose ran.  The metallic taste in my mouth unbearable.  I looked at my hands.  In the glow, I could see the wet, black staining.  Blood.  The metallic taste was my own blood.

I stumbled to my feet.  Ran back the way I had come.  My sodden, achy legs moved so slowly.  My skin itching.  Burning.  I scraped against the wall.  Overcorrected away from it.  Slammed into the other side.  I barreled through pitch blackness.  Had I escaped the light or could my watering eyes no longer see?  Pins and needles in my fingers and toes.  The clothing scraping against my skin hurt.

My legs gave.  Unwilling to resist the deep throbbing rumbling through my bones.   A splash as I fell into the water.  Water into my mouth.  Not ready to give up.  Still crawling.  Inching forward.  Desperate to get back to the surface.  My body finally gave in.

Hours later, I found myself collapsed in the T-junction near entrance tunnel.  Moonlight dimly breached the darkness.  I forced myself to my feet.  Drifted down the tunnel.  Poured out exit onto the ground.  My arm fell into the water.  A nearby rustling and splash.  The gator.  No time to rest.  Back on my feet.  Crawling over the hill that was a mountain for my weary limbs.

Back on the gravel path.  Crickets cheered me on.  I reached my parent’s house.  Stopped.  Looked at the moon.  No.  They went to bed early.  No point in waking them.   My house was too far though.  Mattie’s was closer.  And, good lord, would a beer be salvation.

Empty, lamp-lit streets.  The sign to Mattie’s.  Going through the door.  Crossing the room.  Sitting in my usual seat by the counter.  With a pathetic whine, “Felice, I’m dying here.  Get me something.”
 
I expected a “Rich?  The hell happened to you?”  Or maybe a “Fine way to say hello.”  Or at least the sound of a glass being filled.  Being placed on the counter for me.  Felice sat back, idling.

Maybe she had not heard me over the other customers.  I looked around.  Honestly, the bar seemed pretty empty tonight.  Surely she’d seen my sorry hide.  “Fe-lice!  Please.”

No response.

“FELICE!”

A call two chairs down from me.  Edgar.  “Hey Felice, another one, would ya?”

“You keeping track of how many you’ve had?  ‘Cause I am.”

I shook my head.  “What the heck?  Did I do something to piss you off?”

“Come on, don’t be like that,” Edgar moaned.  “One more.  Then I’ll go home.  Promise.”

Felice sighed, snagged Edgar’s glass, and filled it from the tap.  She thumped it on the counter.  “Last one.  Your wife’s gonna shank me if I let you keep going after that.  She’ll be mad enough that I let you sit here instead of helping with the search.”

“I did help!  With Tony and Roy!  We didn’t find <i>nothing</i>.  Not even these pipes Tony kept whining about.”

In desperation, I grabbed for Felice’s wrist.  My hand went right through her.
