The small town of Sandegunde was nestled deep in Nebraska’s autumn yellow, tallgrass prairie.  Once a bustling mecca on the edge of westward expansion, it now waned into a ghost of its former self.  Shops closed.  The population declined.  Everyone who remained did so only because leaving was not an option.  Wagon trails no longer rolled through town.  The merchants stopped setting up booths.  The mail no longer arrived.

The rich were the first to go.  Not because they chose to leave, but because they had superior indoor plumbing.  They trusted their mechanically purified water implicitly.  When the well water turned black, average folk turned to filling barrels from the distant river and collecting rainwater for drinking and cooking.  The wealthy continued to consume from the well.  They did not notice the sooty speckles contaminating their glasses despite filtering.

The true menace of the contamination was that it did not make the drinker sick.  The streets were free from dead and dying bodies. The afflicted walked among their neighbors without so much as a sniffle.  They simply vanished at some point.  Doors would be left unlocked and open.  Tasks would be abandoned midway through.  The townsfolk assumed that the infected wandered into the plains, but no one had seen them go.

When it became clear that they would not return, the town looted the abandoned properties.  Predictably, the local pastor scolded everyone. Warned them that such acts were shameful and put their immortal souls at risk.  Afterall, the next crop of individuals to disappear were looters. The ones that drank the water from those houses.  Eventually, most of the stolen goods were returned.  Afterall, what was the value of money when there was nothing to buy?

The pastor did not stop at admonishing his flock, however.  He informed them that the darkening of the water was a sign from God. Sinners were the target of Her wrath. Through prayer, confession, and good works, the townsfolk who remained would be spared.  The well would clear when God believed they had all returned to the righteous path.

Most of the town attended the pastor’s bodiless funeral after his disappearance.  The rest mockingly saluted him from the bar, the one other establishment not to close its doors.  In his wake, the pastor left his dutiful wife, Darlene, and three daughters.

At sixteen, Charity was the oldest.  A serious, bright young woman.  Well-versed in the Bible, as her father would have expected.  She took over Sunday mass.  There was no doubt in her mind that her father would have been proud of her.  Her mother certainly was.

The youngest, Grace, was old enough to watch herself and stay out of trouble, but rarely did.  She was the type to pick up a snake on a dare only to find herself with handful of angry viper and no idea how to put it down.  Both her parents had wished their bold child possessed more forethought.

The middle daughter, Mercy, though loved, was the wayward child.  Apt to dreaming and wandering.  Overly open-minded.  The first to question everything.  Even that which should be taken on faith.  At thirteen, her behavior was waying heavily on her father’s mind.

There had been musing of sending Mercy to a nunnery in hopes of grounding her in reality. Her mother abandoned that plan. Charity was busy doing good work. Grace still needed strong guidance from her mother.  Sending a lone young girl through the plains would be her death sentence.  Mercy would stay home and help with chores until Grace was older.

Mercy had more important work than chores though.

One clear day, she quietly stepped out of her house and gently closed the door.  Her assigned work was complete, but there were always more where that came from.  If she left without attracting her mother’s notice, she would not be scolded for skirting her duties to hunt.  An activity her mother did not approve of, but begrudgingly allowed.  Food was scarce, and Mercy was a good shot.

She crept to the shed to pull out her crude bow and quiver.  She shook the quiver with a frown.  Her stock of arrows was running low.  Soon, she would have to make more.  The next time she fetched water from the river, she would bring back branches from the poplar trees.

With her weapon in hand, Mercy made her way into town.  She should have been used to the quiet streets by now, but they still bothered her. There was a time when a dog barked in every other yard and cats lazed in the house windows.

The dogs were the first to go.  The house cats lasted longer but eventually they were all gone too.  These days, only one tortoiseshell cat with more black than orange roamed the town.  It would hiss when passed.  Its suspicious nature is what kept it alive.  It did not trust the water.  Nor did it trust Mercy.

Today, that mangy stray sat on the steps to the old general store.  Its tail swished back and forth as its slitted eyes tracked Mercy’s path.  Once she had mistakenly tried to pet the cat.  Its claws had ripped her arms to ribbons.  On another occasion, the cat had puffed up for no reason and chased Mercy to another building.  Why such an antisocial beast insisted on hanging around town baffled her.

Reaching the post office unscathed and unharassed was a relief.  A middle-aged man, Mathew, sat on the steps to the door, smoking a cigarette. Mercy regarded him as her hunting mentor, but he was better known as the Indian-whisperer, because he spoke Pawnee. On several occasions, he had talked the town out of hot water with the original owners of the territory.

Mathew looked like any other white man, but the truth was that he was one quarter Indian himself.  His white grandmother had run off with his Pawnee grandfather.  They had a daughter they raised to respect the traditions of both halves of her culture.  She made mistake of falling for a white man who was, in Mathew’s words, good for nothing. She raised Mathew to respect his native roots more than his colonial ones.

Mercy sat on the steps next to Mathew.  “Still waiting for that letter, Matt?”

Mathew nodded with his eyes closed.  “I see you’ve got a mind for hunting today.”

“I do.  I’m hoping for pronghorn.  You seen any around?”

“You sure you want pronghorn?”  He gestured north with his cigarette.  “There’s elk beyond the river if you’re willing to go that far.”

“You coming with me?  I can’t bring all that back by myself.  Be a shame to waste the meat.”

Rocking his head side-to-side, Mathew clicked his tongue.  “Not today.  I’ve got enough for now.  You’ll get your pronghorn due west of here.  There’s a few herds.  It should be easy tracking.  We’ll go elk hunting next week.  They’re not going anywhere for a while.”

“All right, thanks Matt.”  Mercy waved as she turned to leave town.

“Remember to show respect.  You’re a good kid.  It would be a shame if the bad blood took you.”

“I never forget.”

Mathew had his own opinions about why the water had gone bad.  Most townsfolk did not appreciate it, but Sandegunde was founded on a battlefield.  The territory was once disputed among the Pawnee, Comanche, Kiowa, and any other plains nation looking to expand.  That kind of violence left a mark on the earth.  The pain, the rage, and the fear seeped into the soil with the bloodshed.  It changed the land.  Made it a place where darker things gathered.  Became trapped.

Once, Mathew was challenged on his belief.  “If the land was always rotten, then why did the water only go bad now?”  He told the skeptic that white people misunderstand how time works.  No one liked that answer.  His second attempt was to explain that the darkness eventually had to find a release. Water was as good place as any for it to escape to.

Most of the town preferred to believe that it was God’s wrath.  She was someone they understood.  Someone they could appease.  An ambiguous evil from a time before they were born seeping through the earth was beyond their comprehension.

Crossing over the line of rocks bounding the town, Mercy stepped into wheat-colored grass up to her hips.  At first, she walked quickly, distancing herself form the town.  When it faded into a fuzzy speck on the horizon, her pace slowed. She scanned the grass for droppings, tracks, and breaks in the undergrowth from grazing.  Focusing downwards, she almost missed a large, clearing to her left.

The distressed cawing from pair of loggerhead shrike, startled Mercy.  Shielding her eyes from the sun, she looked in their direction.  They were fighting over food while hopping along a fence line.  One of the abandoned farms.  Mercy watched the birds bicker as the grass waved in the breeze.

A darker splotch beyond the fence caught her attention.  She hunkered down, sneaking her way to the edge of the property.  The two shrikes flew to the roof of the house, but her quarry was unaware of her approach.  A flock of greater prairie chickens pecking through the old fields.  They were not as meaty as a pronghorn, but it would get the family through until she hunted the elk with Mathew.

Only, she would need two of them.

For an hour, she watched the flock.  A dozen individuals.  Most remained tightly within the boundaries of the flock.  One bird tended to wander off though.  Mercy quietly prayed for it to go a little further.  To stray closer to the house, where she could take it out without scaring the others.  Eventually, it wattled to the house and disappeared behind it.  Mercy clicked her teeth.  Her prayers should have been more specific.

Following the fence line, she crept around to the other side of the house.  From there, she saw the front door, a little porch, and no stray chicken.  She counted the flock.  Eleven birds. Where had the other one gone?  To get a better look, she would have to leave the cover of the tallgrass.  She backtracked to the secluded side of the house.

Dropping to her belly, she crawled forward like a snake.  Her ears trained on the argumentative clucking and startled gibbering.  The ruckus of birds bullying one another.  A fight for the best grass patches to find seeds and insects.  One bird sounded different.  Its calls were muffled.  A content muttering to itself.

When Mercy reached the house, she peered around the edge.  A hint of moving shadows from the lattice work under the porch.  The stray chicken had found a sanctuary.  A dark place to snap up worms under a wooden veil.  Mercy sighed.  Shooting it under the porch would be no easy feat.

Laying down again, she pulled out her bow and an arrow.  She loosely held them in place with her left hand as she crawled forward.  The chicken remained content in its pecking as Mercy drew closer.  She had just reached the lattice when the bird turned to face her and froze.  Reflexively, Mercy drew the bow string and released. The arrow shaft scraped against the top of a lattice hole but hit its target.

The bird gave a quiet gurgle and thumped onto the ground.  Kicking weakly.  Its feathers ruffling in the dirt.  The rest of the flock tittered in surprise before falling silent.  Mercy peer over the porch floor.  The chickens looked around anxiously but stood still.  She pulled out another arrow and drew the bow string taut.  A flurry of feathers and rushing feet as another bird fell.

Retrieving the chicken from under the porch was a battle.  Mercy was larger than the break in the lattice the bird had wandered through. No amount of squirming, reaching, and struggling changed that.  In the end, she reached though the lattice gaps, passing the bird from one hand to the next until she moved it to the break.  Once she had both birds, Mercy whispered, “thank you” to each of them.  Then she looked up and said thank you again, marking an S sign across her chest.

She returned to town with the meat over her shoulder.  Along the way, she had picked up cluster of sage and wild asparagus, tucking them into her quiver.  With some potatoes and carrots from the root cellar, her family would be well fed that weekend.  Her visions of the feast left her mind as she passed the original well.  An old stone pillar, sealed with an oversized barrel end that was chained in place.

No one had used the well in decades.  The handpump in the center of town serviced anyone whose house was too old to have indoor plumbing.  After the water turned black, they had installed a charcoal barrel to get mostly clean water from the pump for washing purposes.  Whatever was wrong with the water, it only affected people who drank it.  Touching it was harmless.

A part of Mercy wondered if the water from the original well might be safe.  Perhaps a silly thought.  All the water came from the same place in the end.  But if Mathew was right, maybe the bad blood had only reached the hand pump.  Maybe the ground water’s source was untouched.  One day, Mercy would bring a bucket to the old well to satisfy her curiosity.  She just had to find a way to the clip the chains.

As she passed, she glanced at the lock, trying to imagine who might have the tools she needed.  She stopped.  Her brow furrowed.  The lock on the well was open.  She blinked. When had that happened?  She dug through her memories, not sure if she had ever taken a close look at the lock before.  Had it always been open?

“Those are some funny looking pronghorn.”

Mercy gave a little yelp as she spun on her heels.  “Mathew!  Do NOT sneak up on me!”

The older man’s form shook in time with his chuckle.  “Sorry, Mercy.  I never mean to do it.  How far out did you go to get prairie chicken?”

“Not far.  They were stomping though Mr. Anderson’s old fields.”

“Anderson? We haven’t had them that close to town since I was a kid.  Careful about hunting them.  If we let them have a good breeding season next spring, they’ll stay here.  They lay more eggs than they can hatch.”

“Will they take to nest boxes?”

“Not sure.  Wouldn’t hurt to put out some of Penny’s old ones. Not like she’ll miss ‘em.”  Mathew crossed his arms.  “You know, if the chickens are back, maybe the Pawnee will swing by again.  They might have some ideas about how to heal the land.”

“Maybe…” Mercy glanced west at the waning sun. “I need to get home.  Mom’s going to worry if I’m not back soon.”

“She might not worry so much if you warned her before you went hunting.”  Mathew only paused long enough to let the guilt to sink in. “I want to catch up on the town news before everyone’s too drunk to slur it out though.”  

The two said their goodbyes and set off in opposite directions.  The vision of the open lock remained in Mercy’s thoughts.

When she reached the yard, Mercy waved to her mother and sister on the porch.  Darlene worked her needlepoint from her rocking chair, while Grace fitfully tried to copy the pattern on her own needlepoint.  Though she looked calm, Mercy knew her mother’s nonchalant nod of acknowledgement was cover up. Darlene hated needlepoint and only did it to keep her hands and her mind busy.

As Mercy stepped onto the porch, she held the two birds out.  “I also picked up some fixings.  I’ll get the meat off the first one for dinner tonight.  Do you want me to leave the other one as a whole bird? It might be nice to have a roast for Sunday’s dinner.”

Darlene put down her needlepoint to take the chickens.  She scrutinized them, checking their weight, plumage, and skin.  Holding one bird up, “Save this one for Sunday.  She’s a little fatter and will make nicer pan drippings.”

Mercy nodded as she took the two birds back.  On her way through the door, she stopped.  “Mathew is going Elk hunting next week.  It’s more meat than he can eat.  More than he can carry.  I’m going to help him bring it back, so we get some.”

Grace perked up, the myriad of ribbons in her hair bouncing.  “Can I go too!?”

“No, Grace.” Darlene sighed.  “We’ll see, Mercy.  If you have your chores done that day.”  The closet words to “yes, you can go” Mercy would ever get.  She tapped inside before Darlene could say anything else.

Prepping for that night’s dinner took little time.  Mercy peeled the skin and feathers away, before roughly cutting the best meat off the bones. After drizzled them in salt and oil, she placed them on a sheet, ready for her mother to cook them however she pleased.  Mercy left the organ meats aside in another pan.

After measuring exactly four cups of precious river water into a deep pan, she chopped the bones into smaller hunks that would remain submerged.  She stoked the fire in the oven and placed the pan on the stovetop. Darlene had plenty of recipes that required meat stock.  Mercy looked forward to the surprise of what this batch would become.

She took more time with the second bird.  Plucking the feathers off.  Oiling on top and under the skin.  Rubbing copious abouts of salt and sage across its entire surface.  She would have preferred to brine it, but there was not enough river water left in the kitchen.  That could be fixed.

She added the second bird’s organ meats to the first pile and buried them in salt.  Digging through a drawer, she pulled out a cork. As she turned to the front entrance Darlene walked in with Charity.  The eldest daughter looked exhausted after a long day of writing and practicing her sermon. Mercy squeezed passed them to grab her coat.

Charity placed her hands on her hips.  “And where are you going this late?”  Her imitation of her father was impeccable.

“We’re low on drinking water.  If I’m quick, I’ll be back before sundown.  Mom, the meat for tonight is done.  I’ll finish the roasting bird once I have the water.”

“All right…” Darlene hesitated.  “But take Grace with you.  She doesn’t know the path very well, and I would like her start helping more.”

“Mom, really? She’ll slow me down.”

“Why are you complaining?  It’s an excuse for you to dawdle.”  Charity’s sarcasm was not reflective of their father.  She hurried into the kitchen.  “Oh, thank the Savior.  What was the last time we had…?  What kind of bird is this exactly?”

Mercy left without answering.

Grace sat cross-legged on the floor of the porch, scowling at her messy needlepoint.  Mercy tapped her shoulder.  In one long breath: “I’m getting water, mom wants you to come, don’t slow me down.”

A delighted squeak escaped Grace.  “Yes! Can I ride Percival there?”

“No.”

Grace huffed but got up ran after her sister.  The spare water barrel stood by the mailbox.  With a groan, Mercy heaved it over her shoulder.  Amid a barrage of excited questions from Grace, Mercy lumbered towards the north edge of town.  Just within the rock boundary was a series of hitching posts.  These days, only one animal was ever tied to them.  Percival the mule.

No one knew where Percival came from, or what her original name was.  She was found wandering around town with a bandana on her head soon after the water turned.  The bandana had the name “Percival” written on it.  Now, she was now an institution.  The fount of brute force that let the town import river water.  That mule had made the trip so many times, that she needed no guidance.  She had memorized the path.

Next to the posts was cart the town shared.  After placing her barrel in the cart, Mercy brought Percival over to get her hooked up. One by one, she tightened the straps around the mule’s body.  Meanwhile, Grace shoved a fistful of grass in Percival’s face.  The mule took it, chewed it, and dropped it.  Grace offered Percival more grass.  The cycle repeated.  Percival, while diligent, was particularly dumb mule.

“Grace! Stop teasing the donkey!”

“She’s not a don-key!”

Mercy gave Percival a solid rump pat, and the mule marched forward.  She then stepped in behind Grace and bopped her on the back of the head too for good measure.

“Hey!” Grace protected her head with her hands.

“Be nice to the donkey.”

Grace stuck her tongue out as far as it would go.

The trip to the river was blessedly short.  No amount of yelling would convince Grace to pay attention to the landmarks.  She was too busy trying to catch the lizards spooked by the cart.  In times like these, Mercy questioned how it was possible for Charity and Grace to be related.

When they arrived, Mercy set about filling the water barrel.  Grace ran off to catch frogs.  At least that was productive.  Or should have been.  Grace managed to catch one but released it with a squeal when is squirmed.  Horrified, she splashed through the water to reclaim the amphibian, soaking the bottom of her dress.  Despite herself, Mercy stifled a laugh at Grace’s tragedy.

Once the barrel filled, Mercy snagged a mallet from the cart and tapped her cork into place. Returning the barrel to the cart was no easy feat, but with some straining and struggling, Mercy managed it. Panting, she sat down, grateful that Percival could deliver it to their front door.  She looked around for Grace.  The little girl was a fluttering of damp fabric whipping around the bank.  At least she knew how to entertain herself.

Mercy eased back onto her feet to inspect the trees.  Most of them were cottonwoods, but there were a handful of poplars.  The nearest ones had no good branches on the ground though.  Mercy had picked through them on prior occasions.  No matter. She headed further upstream.

Finding suitable wood took Mercy longer than she had hoped.  The sun was setting by the time she returned to the cart.  But Charity was right.  Blaming their tardiness on Grace’s exuberance would solve all ills. Mercy returned dropped her armful of branches into the cart bed.  It was then she noticed how quiet it was.  Her little sister was nowhere in sight.

“Grace!?”

No response.

“GRACE!”

Still nothing.

“Great.” Mercy followed the river downstream, intermittently calling Grace’s name.  She found water, rocks, and grass.  Surely, Grace had not wandered into the plains.  Right?  Mercy scanned the distance.  Nothing stood out in the grass tinted orange by the dying sun.  A pathetic moan behind her.  “Grace!”  Mercy whirled around.  The riverbank ahead of her was empty.

From the far bank, “M-mercy?”

“Grace, why did you cross the river!?”

“Mercy…”  She sounded like she was hurt.

Sighing, Mercy kicked off her shoes and waded across the river.  There was no point in lifting her dress to keep dry.  The middle of the river rose to her waist. When she reached the other shore, she found Grace curled up in a ball around her leg.

“Did you trip?”

“Snake.”

“Snake?” The word sank into Mercy’s brain. “Were you bit!?”  She pulled Grace’s arms away from her leg.  Two deep punctures at her ankle.  “What bit you Gracey?  A racer?  A milk snake?”

A weak, warning rattle answered Mercy’s question.  A few feet away, a massasauga coiled on itself.  A kink in its spine disrupted the end of its loop.  Grace must have stepped on it.

“Hold on Grace, I know what to do.”  She pulled the ribbons from Grace’s hair, knotting them together.  When she had enough length, she tied the ribbon tight to Grace’s leg above the bite mark.  She hoisted Grace over her shoulder.  “When did you get so heavy!?”

Grace moaned as Mercy rose to her feet.  Mercy fought her way back to the other side of the bank.  To the cart.  She dropped Grace there and ran to Percival.  “Get moving!”  She gave the mule a solid slap on the back.  Percival jumped forward a few steps, then slowed to a leisurely pace for the trip back.

“No! Faster!”  Mercy hit the mule again.  It kicked back at her, missing, but sending her falling to the ground.  “Fine!  Be that way!” Returning to the back of the cart, Mercy hopped on.  “Grace, I need to give you a piggyback ride into town.  Can you hold on?”

“I’m dizzy. My leg hurts.”

“I need you to get on my back.”

Grace picked herself up slowly.  She swayed to the side but caught herself.  Clambering onto Mercy’s back, she wrapped her arms around Mercy’s shoulders.  Mercy grabbed Grace’s legs and slid of the end of the cart onto her feet.  She turned to face south.  Town was in sight, but it was a long run.

“You’re in for a bumpy ride, Grace.”  Mercy took off, shooting ahead of Percival.  The mule continued at its current pace.  The light was dying by then.  Mercy’s feet stampeded through the prairie.  Halfway back, the sound of her panting overshadowed the swish of trampling grass.  Soon after, she slowed to trot.  Her legs would fail if she kept running.

She tripped over the town’s rock perimeter.  Wheezing. Dizzy.  Where was Dr. Jones’ house again?  Stumbling into to town center.  The only lights came from the bar.  As if the lushes would help the pastor’s daughters.  Mercy staggered to what was once the town’s wealthy district.  Scanning house after house after house.  She remembered.  That one with the red door.  That was his.

Up the path to the door.  Swung open the screen door.  Next the main door.  Inside. A sitting room converted into a waiting room.  Mercy left Grace on the couch.  Through the door to Dr. Jones’ office.  A lamp. She lit it.  Where would he have kept his experiments?

Mercy dug through drawers, threw open cabinets, turned the office upside down.  There was another door that led to what should have been the root cellar.  She barreled down the stairs, tripping, and almost throwing herself to the bottom. She dropped the lamp, but it stayed lit.

Picking it up, she shined it around the room.  Shelves of tanks.  Each containing a hungry snake.  A glass-windowed cabinet on the wall.  Locked. Mercy pushed her face to the glass to read the words on the vials.  Spidery handwriting proclaimed “something antivenom” followed by stray letters and a date.  

Mercy scanned the room again.  Shelves. Tanks.  Broom.  A barrel of saw dust.  A bucket of rocks.  Rocks. Mercy snatched one and hammered on the glass panel, shattering it.  Checked vial after vial.  Prairie Rattler.  Copperhead.  Copperhead again.  Timber Rattler.  Massasauga. Snatched it.  She paused.  It did not say antivenom on the bottle.  Looked at the label on the shelf.  Raw venom. She put it back and dug through the vials on the lower shelves marked antivenom.  Found the right type.

Dashing upstairs, she snagged a needle from one of the open drawers.  Back to Grace.  Kneeling by the couch.  How much was Mercy supposed give her?  She stared at the needle and the vial.  A little too much medicine was better than not enough.  Mercy filled the syringe.  Her hands shook as she prepared to inject Grace.

The swollen skin around bite marks was turning purple.  The rest of Grace’s leg was turning blue.  Mercy jabbed the needle between the bite marks, injecting.  Grace yelped in pain and weakly fought to get away.  When the needle was empty, Mercy put it and the vial and untied the ribbon from Grace’s leg.

“You s-stay…” Mercy coughed.  Her throat and mouth were raw and dry from panting.  “Be back.  Getting mom.”  She expected her legs to respond.  For them to carry her out the door.  When they remained as jelly, she submitted the fact that she had to rest.  “I’ll get mom in a minute, I mean.”

A plaintive whine. “Am I going to be okay?”

“Yes.  Just don’t step on another snake.”

“I didn’t try to.  I didn’t see it.  I just wanted the frog.”

“I know.”

The two girls sat in silence as Mercy’s breathing evened out.  Eventually, her legs started listening to her again.  She forced them to lift her weight.  That was the hard part.  Once she was upright, her body was willing to stay that way.  She opened her mouth to say goodbye but was interrupted by a sputtering grinding.  A gurgling emanating from the walls.

“What’s that?” Grace whispered.

“The pipes, I think.  Remember that one time we got air bubbles in our plumbing?  It sounded like that.”

“Did you run the water?”

“Yes,” Mercy lied. Grace had enough to worry about without wandering why the pipes were grumbling.

“You didn’t drink it, did you?”

“Of course not. I’ll be back, okay?  Stay here.”  With that, Mercy shot the door.

Cool water poured down Mercy’s body.  Exhausted, she sat down on the tub floor and wrapped her arms around her knees.  This shower was well-earned after running herself into a sweaty, sticky, muddy mess saving Grace.

Grace was in her bedroom now.  A pile of needles and more bottles of massasauga antivenom on the table by her bed.  She spent much of the time whimpering in pain but was speaking when spoken to.  Her ankle looked terrible but the swelling in the rest of her leg was minimal.

Percival, for her part, had made it back to town.  Charity brought the water barrel home and threw Mercy’s branches into a pile by the shed. Mercy hoped Charity had brought Percival to the stable.  That poor mule was left out in the open far more nights than was fair.  No one left in town had owned horses before the water went bad.  Their care for Percival was lackluster at best.

The water sputtered out harder for a moment, and Mercy looked up.  Three layers of cheese cloth hung from the ceiling held up a layer of sand and charcoal.  The makeshift filter, so the bath water would be clean-ish, even if not safe to drink. Once a month, they pulled the filter down, scraped off the accumulated silty blackness, and rehung it.

When dry, the black contamination was a fine dust.  It had a vaguely metallic smell, but otherwise seemed inert.  They tried not to breath it though, covering their moths and noses with bandanas as they disposed of it.  Afterall, it if entered their wet bodies, that would be as bad as drinking the water, right?  Assuming the silt that was the contamination and not something else.  Something invisible.  Too small to filter out.  Maybe even a part of the water itself.

Another sputtering from the shower head.  Did air get into their system again somehow?  She remembered the sounds from Dr. Jones’ house.  Something must be going on with the well water in general.  Mercy stood to adjust the head.  As she swiveled it, the water stopped flowing.  Only stray drops spit out of the head with a hiss.  Mercy twisted the head back and forth.

The whole piece shot off the pipe.  Mercy gasped as it rocketed past her.  As the silt blockage squirted free.  As a rush of water shot into her face.  Into her open mouth.  Choking it down when hit the back of her throat.  She fell backwards.  Hit her head on the wall.  Gurgling a shriek as she grabbed the back of her skull.

Clicking as someone frantically tried the locked door handle.  “Mercy!  Are you okay?!”

No.  Nothing was okay.  She drank the water.  Mercy looked around wild eyed.  A dent in the wall above her where the shower head hit it.  The hunk of metal now laid on the bathmat.  A soupy dripping sound from the filter.  Plugs of silt squished out of the pipe like black toothpaste.  Overflowing the cheese cloth.  Dropping onto the tub floor in clumps of viscous goo.

“Mercy!?”

Mercy turned off the faucet.  She grabbed a towel and wrapped it around her body.  Picked up the shower head.  Unlocked the door and presented the shower head to Darlene.  Darlene stared down at the metal implement dumbly.

“Tell me you didn’t accidently drink the water.”

“No, mom.” Mercy stepped back and pointed at the silty mess.  “But I don’t think we can use the well water at all anymore.”

Darlene threw her arms around Mercy.  “Thank the Savor.  Thank God.”

The next morning, Mercy sat on an old stump by the shed, whittling the bark off her tree branches. So far, she had half a dozen pieces that would make good arrows.  For whatever that was worth.  How long would it take her to disappear?  Would it be that day?  The next? When she went Elk hunting with Mathew? Her mother would never forgive him if it looked like Mercy’s vanishing was his fault.  Then again, it could take weeks.  Months.

Or maybe she would be okay.  Was one little mouthful really enough to catch… whatever it was?  Mercy put her branch down.  No.  This was the wrong time for hope.  To pretend everything would work out.  The idea of saying goodbye to her mother and sisters brought tears to her eyes.  It had been hard enough to say goodbye to her father when he disappeared.  At least she was saved looking at his face before he left.

The sound of the front door opening.  “Mercy!”

“What, Charity?!”

“It’s time for church!”

Mercy struggled to her feet.  Her legs still ached from running too much the night before.  She stumbled to the porch.  Charity stood alone in a black dress.  The one she had worn to father’s funeral.  It had a high collar, and she had tied a white ribbon around it to mimic a clerical collar.

“Where’s mom?”

“Staying with Grace.  I’ll give them a run through after I finish up with the rest of the town.”

“So… I could wait too?”

Charity crossed her arms.

“No?”  On her way past, Charity hooked her arm around Mercy’s.  She dragged her sister backwards to the mailbox.  Mercy fought to free herself.  “I’m coming, all right!?”

Charity let her go.  “You know, I would have said yes if I thought there was any chance you would show when I give the service again.”

“What if I promised?”

A sigh.  Her serious expression was their dad’s.  “Would you keep it?”

“…No.”

Another sigh. Charity patted Mercy on the back. “Church is good for you.  Speaking of which, you didn’t lose your necklace, did you?”

“Of course not.” Mercy tugged at her neck to fish out a gold chain.  She showed Charity the S charm on the end.  “It gets in the way though.”  She dropped it back into her blouse.

“Keep it out for service at least!”

Mercy huffed and pulled the charm out again.

The little church house was a modest building.  One of the oldest in Sandegunde.  At one point, it had been the town center.  Expansion as the town peaked had pushed the church to the north easter corner of the incorporated space.  However, in these dark days, it had regained its status as the town’s central hub, completing only with the bar as the most important place in Sandegunde.

As Charity opened the double doors, she whispered, “Be good and go to the front, where our family always sits.”

“Do you really want me to be the only person in the first three pews?”

“Fine.   Sleep in the back.  Just don’t do anything to embarrass dad’s memory.”

“I don’t—”

Charity was already on her way to the altar.  Mercy huffed and sat in the back row.  The congregation included fifteen bodies.  The smallest it had ever been.  Paradoxically, more of the town’s population in was attendance than ever before.  Mathew sat in the middle of the pews.  He only showed up because he liked the music.

Mercy bit her lip. Should she tell him that she would be too busy to hunt next week?  What would her excuse be?  She had to come up with something.  Her remaining time should be spent with her mother and sisters.

The scratch of chalk on a black board as Charity wrote the numbers and pages for the hymns and scripture she would go through.  Only two hymns.  No one left besides Charity knew how to play the organ, and it was not her strength.  As long as she played slowly, it sounded okay. She sat at the organ bench, turning around long enough to say, “Take out your hymnals.  We’ll be starting with hymn 78, In Praise of Her Grace and Majesty, page 95.”

Mercy reached for her hymnal and scrambled to the right page.  She almost knew the full English translations for most of the hymns.  The lyrics were in Latin though, and that she would never memorize.  Charity was three words in before Mercy got the right page open.  She stumbled into the fifth word.  The only singers were Charity, Mercy, and Mathew.  The rest of the congregation hummed along at best. Most were silent.

When the second hymn was over, Mercy sat back, relieved.  Charity listed off congratulations and condolences to the townsfolk, spending no more time on Grace than she did anyone else.  Her father would have been proud of her restraint.  Her poise.

Moving on, she opened the heavy bible at the altar, resting it in the crook of her arm.  When she had given an appropriate pause to allow her audience to pull out their bibles, she launched into the story of Zachariah the Blacksmith without referencing the book in front of her. She had memorized it.  Even their father had rarely gone to that length.

The rhythmic sounds of Charity’s voice reciting Zachariah’s happy life and first tragedy were too soothing. Mercy felt herself nodding off. She missed the second tragedy. Determined to stay awake for the third, Mercy changed positions and fidgeted quietly.  The sound of her sister’s voice faded again.  Mercy shook her head violently.  She had to stay awake!

She stared hard at Charity’s moving lips.  No sound came out.  Mercy’s brows furrowed as she tilted her head.  From Charity’s expression and hand gestures, she must have reached Zachariah’s journey to the mountains.  But in total silence.  No one else seemed perturbed by it.  Mercy flipped the corner of her bible’s pages, expecting to her a buzz.  Silence.

Had she suddenly gone deaf?  No. Mercy closed her eyes.  She could hear something.  A quiet hissing.  A rushing. Water.  It sounded like the river.  How could she hear the river from the church?  She opened her eyes, expecting to see torrents of water cascade from the stained-glass windows.  Waterfalls form the steeple drenching the pews.  Flooding the entire town.

Instead, she saw a nearly empty church watching her sister gesticulate. Muted by the roar of unseen water.   Mercy jammed her hands over her ears, but the sound crescendoed.  It rose to a deafening volume.  She swore she could feel cold streams of fluid coursing down her arms, her back, her legs.  Drowning in air that felt like an ocean.

The curtain of invisible water drew back.

“As Peter shined the lamp over the rockslide, he said, ‘It’s a miracle you survived that fall.’ Zachariah replied, ‘It’s a miracle the town didn’t follow me down.  No one would have seen it in the dark.’  Peter agreed. ‘We might have if not for that cobra. It blocked us from taking the usual path.’  It was then Zachariah realized that it had all been planned.  He had not been abandoned.  She still looked after Her flock.  When Zachariah returned home with his brother and the rest of the town, he was prepared to restart his life.”

Charity closed the bible and placed it reverentially on the altar.  “Zacharia did not plan to be trapped on the mountain.  He did not ask to travel through the darkness alone. Nothing that happened to him was what he wanted.  However, in the end, he was given what he needed.  Proof of his own strength.  Proof that the family and community he had left was there for him.  Proof that God Herself was still invested in Her people.

“This is what we must remember in these trying times.  We still have ourselves, one another, and our faith.  Think on this for the coming week.  Reinvest in the family, friends, and community we have left. Eventually, this test will be over. When it is, the most important things will still be ourselves, one another, and our faith.  Amen.”

The congregation murmured “Amen” in return.  Except for Mercy.  She sat quietly.  Staring down at her hands.  She knew the water was calling her to leave, but to where?  And why?  What did it want?  It had felt so cold.  So empty. So alone.

“Mercy…”  Mercy glanced to the side.  Charity sat next to her, placing a hand on her shoulder.  “Are you all right?”

Hot tears swept down her face.  “Mom can’t lose any of us.  Not after dad.”

“Grace is going to be okay.”  Charity pulled Mercy into a hug.  “We’re going to be okay.”  She released Mercy with a sigh.  “I need to get things in order here though.  Do you want to wait for me?  We can walk home together.”

“No.”  Mercy wiped her face clean.  “I want to walk around town a bit.  Get this out before I face mom again.”

“What happened to Grace is not your fault, Merc.  Sometimes these things just happen.”

“Yeah…  I know.”

The two girls stood.  Charity walked Mercy to the door.  “Be safe.”

Mercy gave a weak wave goodbye and stumbled into town.  Warning her family about what was coming was the right thing to do.  She felt absolutely no desire to do so.  Instead, she weaved through the streets aimlessly. Circling rows of abandoned shops. Following the alleyways she had been warned to stay out of when the town was vibrant and healthy.

Mathew was not at the post office today.  Of course not.  The mail never came on Sundays.  Not that it came Monday through Saturday either.  Mercy sat in the middle of the steps and looked out at the town.  The only home she had ever known.

What distant land would the bad blood drive her to?  Was there another place everyone ended up?  Would she be reunited with her father?  Or did everyone go their own way.  Fanning out around the town to eventually die in some distant, empty spot as far away as their feet could carry them.

A yowl from the bottom of the steps.  The stray sat there, looking up at Mercy.  Its nose flared as it fervently sniffed.  Whiskers and ears propped forward in interest.  It almost looked friendly.  Mercy considered trying to pet it again.  She had little to lose at this point.

Her hand reached out.  The cat kept smelling the air.  Mercy’s fingers were hovering over the cat’s head when its ears flattened.  It backed up.  Puffed its fur out and tucked its tail.  Growled and bolted.  With a sigh, Mercy rose and began the walk home.

Everyone was pleased to have Grace at the dinner table that night, her leg propped up on her father’s old chair.  Darlene had done a magnificent job with the roast as always.  Mashed potatoes, carrots, biscuits, gravy.  If they had cranberries on hand, they would have called it an early thanksgiving.  Charity led the family in prayer.  With Grace eating well and chattering away, it was easy for the rest of the family to relax.  Halfway through the meal, Darlene shushed the girls.  A gentle pattering rumbled off the windows.  Rain.

Mercy and Charity jumped to their feet to get all the house’s pots, pans, anything bowl-shaped outside to collect the water.  Darlene joined in after she helped Grace get to the porch.  When everything was out, the rain poured down harder.  Mercy gave Charity a playful shove, dancing away when Charity tried to retaliate.  Two girls chased each other around the yard.

Eventually, Charity redonned her mask of adulthood.  She tended to emptying the full bowls into their spare barrels, so they could collect more water.  Meanwhile, Mercy stared straight up at the sky, catching the rain in her mouth as her hair and wet clothes clung to her form.  Maybe if she drank her fill of the pure rainwater, it would cleanse the bad blood from her body.

“Mercy!” Darlene stood alone on the porch.  “Our barrels are full.  Come inside.”

“In a little bit, Mom!”

“If you catch a cold out there, I don’t want to hear any whining.”

Mercy waved at Darlene.  The front door closed.  She turned back to the sky.  Under the tapping rain, she heard the gentle rush of a river.  A waterfall.  The sky could not undo what was already in motion.

Walking down the path to the street, Mercy turned towards town.  She was amazed as she passed by houses.  The number of people out collecting water.  The town almost felt alive again in the flurry of activity. Mathew’s property was on the southern edge of town.  It was his mom’s old house.  He sat on the porch smoking and listening to the click of water on metal pans as the drizzle slowly filled them.

“Hey, Matt. It looks like your rain dance finally paid off.”

“Mercy, you little fool, get out of the rain.”  She scurried across his yard and to the safety of the covered porch.  Mathew shook his head at her sorry state as she rung out her hair.  “My people don’t have a rain dance.  Or at least my old lady never taught it to me if we do.  We have a grass dance though.”  He stood, demonstrating a quick-paced hopping step.  He stumbled out of it and caught himself on the chair.  “I’m too old for that though.”  Sitting back down, “And I was never much of a dancer.  My dad wasn’t either.  I’m built like he was.”

The two sat in silence for a long time.  The drizzle eased into cloudy skies and sunset.  Mercy shivered as the chill of night set in.

“You ought to head on home soon.”

“Yeah… Matt?”

“Hm?”

“Where do you think people go after they get the bad blood?”

 “You worrying about your father?”

“Yeah…”

“If anybody could find their way to heaven, he could.  Don’t worry about him.”

“Before that though.  Where do you think he went out in the grass?”

“Your guess is as good as mine.”

“But if you had to guess.”

“Your father was a good man.  He wouldn’t have left his family willingly.  Whatever called him, pulled hard.  It would take something powerful to do that.  I think they’ve all gone back to the heart of the battlefield.  Wherever, and whenever, that is.”

“You think he’s in another time?”

“I just know he’s not here in this time.”  The crickets started chirping.  “Mercy, go home.  Worry is going to be the death of your poor mother.”

“All right. See you later Matt.”

He nodded.  “Elk hunting in a few days.  Don’t forget.”

“I’ll have you know I told Mom already.”

“Good girl.”

That night, Mercy tossed and turned in her bed.  The roar of the water growing ever louder.  Oceans permeated her nightmares.  Shifting tides filled with dark beasts.  An owl’s haunting hoot woke Mercy from her fitful sleep.  Sweating.  Panting. Thirsty.  She tiptoed out of her room and into the kitchen.  Ladling a cup of rainwater into her mouth.  A second.  A third.  She felt like she had drunk nothing.  A fourth. A fifth.  She could not get it into her mouth fast enough.

Her eyes fell on the sink.  She was already contaminated, what difference did it make?  She stood, cautiously turned the sink on, afraid the pipes might protest.  The water flower without complaint.  She put her head under the faucet and drank and drank and drank.  Even when the water turned gritty.  Even when it grew viscous.  Even when she had to chew through the black paste.

It was nowhere near enough.

She pulled away from faucet, turning it off.  A line of charcoal mud plopped into the sink bed.  Her stomach lurched as she realized that same substance was inside her.  She wanted to throw it up, but she was still so thirsty.  She stumbled out of the house in her nightgown.  Her feet carried towards the handpump at town center, but she stopped halfway there. The handpump was no better than her faucet.

The river? Too far.  She would never make it.  Her eyes fell on the old well.  Yes. There.  She lurched towards her new target.  Fell to her knees before it.  Pushed the heavy barrel top aside.  A bucket. She needed a bucket.  Frantically searching, she saw nothing that would work.  No rope either.  She could smell the sweet water below though.

She climbed over the stone.  Carefully positioned herself in the well with her back to one side and her legs to the other. In that awkward position, the S charm on her necklace dug into her breast.  Poking and prodding.  She ripped the chain off and tossed it over her shoulder.  Reaching for the barrel lid, she slid it back in place over her.

A weary gasp in the darkness.  She wanted to rest but could not.  It took too much effort to hold herself in place.  She moved one foot down.  Then the other.  Then scootched her back down, pushing away from the wall with her arms.  She repeated that pattern of motions.  Again.  The trip down was going to take all night.
