“They need to come out.”

Irene cringed, sinking back into the long chair.  “I mean, how bad is it really?”

The dentist gave her a wry smile.  “Honestly?  Your wisdom should have been removed years ago.  They’re growing in sideways.”

“But they don’t hurt.”

“But they’re building up decay, and they’re <i>growing in sideways</i>.  Trust me, it’s going to start hurting eventually.”  The dentist turned to a row of high cabinets and pulled down a paper pad.  She scribbled something on it, tore off the first sheet, and handed it to Irene.  “Your referral.  Call them today.  If you thought the wait period to get into my office was crazy, then you don’t want to know how backed up the oral surgeons are.”

“Great…”  Irene slid out of the chair.

The dental assistant popped into the room.  “Hey, at least everything else looks good.”  She excitedly held a goodie bag with sample-sized floss and toothpaste in front of Irene’s face.  “It’s a miracle considering how long it’s been since you got your teeth cleaned!”

Irene forced a closed-mouth smile onto her face and took the bag.  “Uh… thank you.”


That had been three months ago.  The referral slip was buried somewhere in the layer of papers strewn across Irene’s work-desk/bill-paying-station/snack-pantry.  She told herself it was because her finances were below what she had hoped for the year.  As a free-lance marketing consultant, when she had customers, the money came in.  When the work dried up, though, it was time to tighten her belt and hustle.  It was hard enough paying for her health insurance, never mind using it.

An excuse of course.  She scored a major win at the end of last year and had stored away a cache of funds to cover the slow parts of this year.  If she really wanted to, she could afford the surgery to get her wisdom teeth removed.  However, so long as they remained painless, she would let them grow in sideways.  Afterall, if primal woman had to let them come in naturally, she saw no reason for modern woman to fuss about them either.

As Irene absentmindedly rubbed the left side of her jaw, her cell vibrated.  She stared at her desk.  It vibrated again, shaking the pile of papers concealing it.  By the third buzz she had it in hand.  It went off again as she swiped the pattern to unlock it.  Charlotte had messaged her about their lunch date.  She would be a tad late but had good news.  With a neutral expression, Irene texted back, “The suspense is killing me!”

Snagging her black purse from under her desk, she went to the bathroom to touch up her makeup and inspect her outfit.  She was glad she checked.  Apparently, she had forgotten about makeup that morning.

She traced the crow’s feet forming at the corners of her eyes.  Nothing a little moisturizer and concealer would not cure.  Once she had her public face on, she stood up straight with a cocky, coy expression on her face.  Yeah, she could still pass for the perky go-getter.  But did she feel that way anymore?

She slumped on her way out of the bathroom.  By now, she should have felt experienced.  Accomplished.  At what point did being her own boss stop feeling like a “trendy fad” she was testing out?  When would her LLC feel like a legitimate business?  She stared at her desk.  It came to her, and she nodded.  That was what she was missing:  A secretary.

Someone else to manage her files.  Schedule her meetings.  Send the little cards and favors out to her clients to remind them that she still existed.  Once she could justify that expense, she would feel like she had made it.  Confident that her ever-moving goal post for success was finally planted, Irene left her house.

Weekly luncheon was a tradition Irene and Charlotte started back when they were working for the same firm.  At the time, Irene was a marketing intern and Charlotte had just started with HR.  Since then, Charlotte had tried recruiting and sales.  Though her vocational tastes changed on a whim, her culinary tastes were simple and static.  Thankfully, they aligned perfectly with Irene’s.

Their favorite restaurant was Maria’s.  A little place that was a cross between a deli and a café.  Good coffee, good soups, and good sandwiches.  Quick, easy food that no one felt guilty about after the fact.  The pricing was in that range where it was expensive enough to ward off anyone hoping for fast food dollar menus while still being affordable.

Contradicting her text, Charlotte made it to the restaurant first.  She had claimed one of the tables on the patio.  As Irene walked up, Charlotte pulled off her sunglasses and gave a giddy wave.  Irene barely had a chance to sit down before waiter stopped by the table to get her drink order.  She found a frilly cocktail that sounded fun and cheery.  Thankfully, she already knew what sandwich she wanted, so they ordered their meals at the same time.

Once the waiter was gone, Charlotte picked up her mimosa.  Swirling it as she wore an aura of suspense.  “Soooo, how do I look?”

Irene snorted.  “Like a model.  You always do.  Why?  Did something change.”

“Maybe.”

“Hm…”  Irene sat back to take in the whole picture.  Charlotte had her curls straightened today but that was true most days.  Her eye liner and lipstick were gently hued green.  New, but not exceptional.  Her aquamarine and gold earrings sparkled in the sunlight.  Old favorites.  Her simple, white, frilly, blouse contrasted with her boldly green jacket.  Her watched was the same ever.  Today, she wore her high school class ring on her pointer finger, and on her ring finger—“Oh my god, he finally asked!?”

“He asked!”  Charlotte squealed with delight.

“When!”

“Just this morning.  You know how I’m organizing the papers for that merger thing at my new job?  Well, I’ll be out of town for two weeks.  He wanted to get a ring on it just in case I found someone nicer out in New Orleans.”  She leaned in, giving Irene a closer look at the ring and its heart-shaped diamond.  “Between you and me, he doesn’t have anything to worry about.  This little thing doesn’t say much about him, but he survived Sunday dinner with my dad AND my brother.  You know that takes balls of steel.”

Irene rested her cheek on her knuckles.  “They’ve always been perfect gentlemen to me.”

“Be glad you’re not a dude.  So, before we start talking about my wedding, Maid-of-Honor-to-be—”

“Shut up, really?”

“Of course!”

“I’m going to ruin it.”

“Excuse you?  Ms. marketing degree with minors in graphic design and public relations?  The only thing you’re going to ruin is my ego.  I look forward to your brilliance spoiling me rotten with a super star’s wedding.”

As she spoke, the waiter dropped off their meals.  A ham and Swiss on rye with bean soup for Charlotte.  An Italian turkey club with pickles and sweet potato chips for Irene.  Charlotte dunked her sandwich into her soup, taking a big bite with gusto.  Irene daintily bit off a corner of her sandwich, chewing it slowly.

Charlotte stirred her spoon through her soup, contemplating her next mouthful.  “Now, don’t you distract me again… did you do the thing?”

Irene shrank back in her seat.  “Maybe?”  Charlotte’s eyes drilled into her.  “I thought about it!”

“Listen here, it is very important to me that my maid of honor have a full set of teeth.”

“So… you’re telling me <i>not</i> to do it.”

“I’m telling you to call the damn surgeon before you lose all your pearly whites.  I mean look at you!”  Charlotte reached out to pull Irene’s hand away from her cheek.  “You keep messing with your face, because they’re bothering you.”

“It’s not that bad…”

“So, why are you taking baby bites?”

“Look, it’ll happen.  Eventually, it’ll happen...”  Irene took a larger bite to prove Charlotte wrong.  She winced as one of her sideways teeth scrapped against the inside of her mouth.

Charlotte made a show of looking at her watch and tapping on it.  “Yes, yes… Here’s the deal, Irene.  You have until 6pm tonight to make the call.  If you don’t, I will text you every 15 minutes asking whether you’ve done it starting at 5am tomorrow morning.  You get me?”

“I’ll call after lunch…”

“Good girl.”


It took half a day’s worth of friendly reminder texts before Irene finally called.  The earliest the surgeon’s office could do for the consultation was three months later.  Plenty of time for the nagging discomfort in Irene’s jaw to develop into a persistent dull, ache that spiked when she ate.  For what it was worth, the possibility of relief was enough to convince her to make the appointment.

One of the assistant’s led Irene to the end of the hall, where a computer was set up next to an alien device.  The machine reminded her vaguely of an arcade crane game grabbing claw.  The assistant stopped at the computer and pointed to the machine.

“Your dentist doesn’t do panoramic x-rays, so we’re going to get a set of those.  Stand in the middle of the arms for me.”  Irene awkwardly entered the x-ray, eyes darting about nervously.  The assistant finished typing something on the computer and turned to Irene.  “Your chin will rest right here…”  He lowered a y-shaped piece of plastic.  “Go ahead and step up.  Feet together.  A little to the left—perfect.  Now, hold tight in there until I tell you to leave.  The arms will swing around once to get the pictures, and then they’ll have to swing back.  If you step out too early, you might get hit while they’re resetting.”

“’Kay.”

The assistant gave her a thumbs up.  The machine whirred to life.  As the arms slowly rotated around her head, Irene’s breathing quickened.  Having motion so close to her skull from multiple angles induced a primordial fear of being trapped.  Of being attacked from all sides and unable to respond.

When the arms stopped, she exhaled.  She almost stepped back, but remembered what the assistant had said just in time.  The arms returned to their starting position without slamming into her head.  Thankfully, that action was rapid.

“Okay, you’re all good!”—Irene scampered out of the claustrophobic space—“ We’ll just get you settled in…”  The assistant cocked his head.  Leaned in for a closer look at the x-ray.  Mumbling, “That’s odd…”

“Um… is everything all right?”

“Oh, yes.”  The assistant tore himself away from the screen.  “Your wisdom teeth are doing something a little different than what they show in the textbooks.  It’s interesting.”  He caught himself.  “It’s probably nothing the doctor hasn’t seen a hundred times before.”

“All right.”  Irene heard the quiver in her voice.

The assistant clapped his hands.  “Let’s get you seated.”  He led Irene to the third door and opened it for her.  She shuffled in.  The assistant entered the room long enough to pull up Irene’s x-rays on the computer behind the dentist’s chair.  He caught the door frame on his wait out.  “You get comfortable.  Dr. Garcia will be with you shortly!”

The door closed.  Irene stood stiffly in the middle of the room.  The sterile leather chair mocked her.  She glanced at her x-rays instead.  A grimacing array of skeletal pegs and roots.  It was disconcerting enough without knowing that her teeth were doing something unusual.  She stared at the first and final tooth in each row.  They were tilted forward from growing sideways, but otherwhile the looked the same as her theoretically healthy teeth.  Irene swallowed down the possibility that there was something wrong with all of them.

She rocked back on her heels, scanning the room for any other distraction.  Reading the framed wall advertisements for perfect smile procedures took a few minutes.  Examining the assortment of tools, supply boxes, and clutter took a few more.  She read the advertisements again, slower this time.  

Finally, the door handle jiggled.  Irene rushed to the chair and sat on the very edge of it, looking like a good patient.  One ready to run out screaming at any moment.

The doctor entered with his brows furrowed.  His attention fixed on the x-ray screen without saying hello.  Muttered, “Oh boy…”  Irene swallowed hard as he turned to face her.  “So, Irene?  I’m Dr. Garcia.”  He held out a hand.

She tentatively shook it.  “Nice to meet you.”

“The good news is you’ve got one of the best oral surgeons in the state standing in front you.”

“And the bad news?”

“I’m stumped.”  His genial laugh brought Irene immense relief despite his words.  “I’ve never seen anything quite like this.”  He pointed to the x-ray.  “The top two wisdom teeth look like I expect.  Two roots, well formed, and it doesn’t look like anyone extra is hiding in there.  The bottom ones though… It’s hard to tell if you don’t look at these things all day long, but I see at least four root—maybe five—on both of your bottom ones.  They’re unusually deep.  And they’re splayed out.  It makes me think of a little octopus.”  

“I have octopus teeth?”

“Nah, octopus don’t have teeth.  They have beaks.”

Irene tried to smile.

“No?  My kids don’t like my jokes either.  Anyway, the top two will be easy, but the bottom ones are going a trip to get out.  I want some of my colleagues to take a look at your x-rays.  A couple have a CBCT scanners.  I think we’re going to need 3D models to figure this one out.  But we will.”

Dr. Garcia sat on a chair across from Irene.  “Here’s the real kicker.  Normally, I do extractions here.  I have what I need, and it’s cheaper that way.  These are going to take too long.  Local anesthetic isn’t going to cut it.  We’re going to have to do this at the hospital.”


Three months later, Irene sat in the waiting room at the local hospital, skimming Pinterest for ideas to distract herself.  Charlotte wanting her wedding theme to reflect her love of fashion, her fiancé’s love of video games, and the thing that brought them together: healthy living.  Specifically, a yoga class.

Tying together the three concepts was a challenge.  Her stress-addled mind was fixated on the uninspired, yoga-clothes doll-maker game idea.  As if this were the early 2000s, and flash games were still all the rage.  Even chastising herself about mental block was superior to thinking about why she was in there.

The <i>cone-beam computer something-or-other</i> scans had revealed the full horror of her mutant 6-rooted, octopus teeth.  Some of the roots hooked in at 90-degree angles.  There was no chance they would come out in one piece.  The two surgeons would have to cut deeply into her gums to removed them.

At least the second doctor involved himself for free.  The extraordinary case was too much for him to stay out of.  All he wanted in return was one of the extracted hell molars.  Irene did her best not to imagine the ivory trophy sitting in a jar on some shelf.  Submerged in fluid.  Swimming in it like a jellyfish.  Her shoulders shivered.

Today would be the end of it.  The teeth would come out.  Her life would be miserable for a few days or weeks.  And then, Irene would go on with her life as if nothing had ever happened.  Maybe she would see the dentist again in a year.  Or two.  Certainly, sometime within the next decade anyway.

A door opened at the front of the waiting room.  “Irene?  We’re ready for you.”


“The hell you mean they left them in!?”

As Charlotte’s limbs flailed about, Irene shrugged.  She poured her unappealing butternut squash soup out of her spoon.  The healing gums where her top wisdom teeth used to be ached, killing her appetite.  The cuts in the gum around her bottom left wisdom tooth had mostly healed.  The surgeons had given up on the bottom jaw before causing too much damage.

“That’s insane!  Didn’t you get a whole team of dental geniuses or something?”

“Just two.  And clearly <i>not</i> geniuses.”

“You should sue.  This is medical malpractice!”

“Because they <i>didn’t</i> rip my jaw apart?”

“That’s what they’re paid to do.  What’s the point of those fancy medical degrees if they can’t even pull a few teeth?”

“They said their original plan wouldn’t work.  Apparently, my teeth are doing something weird they missed on the scans.”  Irene hoped Charlotte would drop the whole conversation, so they could discuss bride’s maid dresses like they had planned.  Instead, she waited for Irene to clarify.  “The roots are supposed to hold your teeth into your jawbone like a plug in a socket.  My roots are fused to the bone instead.  They can’t just take them out.  They’d have to take out hunks of my jawbone too.”

“That’s… a little disturbing.”

Irene buried her face in her arms.  “You have no idea.  They’re bringing me up to their board or whatever.  Scouring the country for specialists to help them put together a plan.  They think they’re going to have to drill the crowns out and then cap them.  They’re nervous that if they don’t do it right, I’ll end up with permanent nerve damage and pain.”

Charlotte sipped her smoothie as she considered that information.  “Can they just leave them in?”

“They’re pushing on my good teeth.  They might crack if we do nothing.  Dr. Garcia’s back up plan is to pull out my second molars to make space for the wisdom teeth to come in.  Who knows how long I would be in braces to get them aligned.”

“Look, if those quacks can’t get this right, we’ll figure it out.  We’ll start an internet campaign!  That’ll get the attention of some miracle doctor who can handle it.  Maybe you’ll even get to go on Dr. Oz!”

Irene snorted despite herself.  “Yeah.  I’ll keep that strategy in mind.”  She tried a spoonful of the soup and flinched.  Even in its lukewarm state, it was still too hot.  Grabbing her room-temperature water bottle, she drank the heat away.  A vibrating buzz remained.


Nine months since her last tooth cleaning, Irene sat in Dr. Garcia’s office with an ice pack wrapped around her jaw.  Stunned into the silence by the words, “There’s nothing I can do.”  A pile of paperwork and brochures lay unexplained in front of her.

“You jawbone is remodeling itself in a way that… It’s unprecedented.  We can’t even find some questionable, unsubstantiated historical claim of anything like what we’re seeing.  None of us know how to approach this.”

“Then just take out the other molars and make space for my octopus teeth!”

Dr. Garcia shook his head.  “Tooth crowding is the least of your concerns right now.”  Irene stared dumbly as the doctor slid two sets of CBCT print-outs in front of her.  Lines and numbers were scrawled in red over her wisdom teeth.  “This is the scan from 5 months back, and the other is the one we took last week.  I think you can see the difference.”

“They’re curving.”

“They’ve grown three millimeters into that curve.  The teeth should have stopped growing years ago.”  The doctor sat back, crossing his arms.  “Some of my colleagues are throwing around the ‘C’ word, but this looks too organized to me.  Cancer grows erratically.  It’s a heterogeneous mix of cells competing with each other.  It wouldn’t act in parallel across your mouth like this.”

“Not cancer then?”

“Not as far as I can guess.  I’m wondering if it’s genetic.  In rodents, the incisors grow throughout their lifetime.  That why when you buy a hamster as a pet, you have to get them something to chew on.  They’re built to wear down their teeth gnawing on things.  Maybe the growth pathways never turned off in those teeth.”

“So, my octopus teeth are rat teeth.”

“I’m actually thinking about them like tusks.  Like on boar.  Though that’s canines in them.  I don’t know of anything with elongated molars.  It sort of defeats the purpose of having molars.”

“<i>Pig</i>-rat teeth then.”  A hysterical giggling escaped her.

“We’re going to get you in for blood testing to do some hormonal and genetic screens.  Don’t worry about the cost or insurance just yet.”  He tapped his finger on the papers in front of Irene.  “We stumbled onto a research group that’s drooling over the possibility of taking a look at you.  They’re going to cover everything if you opt-in to their study.  They just want permission to publish whatever data we end up with in the course of figuring this out and treating it.  Anonymized, of course.”

Irene’s eyes bulged as Dr. Garcia flipped through what much have been a hundred pages of text.

“You don’t have to sign right now.  Go home and look it over.  If you don’t want to do it, that’s fine, but it’s going to be difficult to convince your insurance to cover it.  We’ve already had a phone fight with them about some of the tests we need to run.”

“Not much choice then.”  Irene picked a pen out of the doctor’s pen mug.

He gently placed his hand over hers.  “Read it over first.  That way you can any ask questions you have about it.  And, if there’s anything you don’t like, we can push back.  They’re academics, not lawyers.”

“I’m in pain, and I want it to stop.”

“You’re taking—”

“Three ibuprofen and two Tylenol every four hours.  It’s doing nothing.  I can’t sleep.  I can hardly eat.”

“Okay, okay...”  The doctor’s brow furrowed as he pulled a pad out of his desk.  He scribbled furiously on it.  “For the record, I don’t like doing this.  Ever since the opioid crisis became a <i>thing</i>, I haven’t wanted to prescribe them at all.  But I can’t imagine how much those whoppers must hurt.”

Ripping off the prescription sheet, he handed it to Irene.  “Codeine mixed with acetaminophen.  This is the lowest dose I can prescribe, and I will not increase it.  You’ll want to stop taking the Tylenol, but the ibuprofen is still fine.  Three days’ worth.  That’s plenty of time to look over the paperwork and make a decision.  If you opt-in, I think we’ll be able to accelerate your treatment significantly.  If not, we’ll figure it out.”

He added one more piece of paper to the stack in front of Irene.  “That’s about the risks of opioid addiction.  Read that before you decide to fill the prescription.”


The next day, Irene lost her morning wallowing in self-pity.  By lunch time, she had her pain killers in hand.  One more hour waiting for the infernal drugs to kick in.  Finally numbed, Irene set to work reading over the stack of papers with a glass of wine.

Consent this, no harm that, good faith access to all of Irene’s medical records from the past and in the future… That was the gist she got out of it.  The real message was “sell us your soul, and we’ll fix your pig-rat teeth.”  Irene scribbled her name on page after page.  In her present state, her soul was doing her no good anyway.

Staring at the blue scribble on the signature lines gave her no hope.  Sure, Dr. Garcia <i>said</i> the research group would move faster, but would they really?  Or would she live with this unbearable pain for another nine months?

Irene picked up her wine glass by the rim and brought it to the kitchen for a refill.  As soon as it was poured, half of it went down.  Dizzy, she leaned over the counter resting her head in her arms.  Her tongue chased the end of something caught between her teeth.  She mentally listed the items in her fluid diet that might have gotten stuck, but came up with nothing.

The phone buzzed from under the stack of consent papers.  Irene picked it out and read Charlotte’s message.  “Hope the feel good drugs are doing their job.  Did you have a chance to try on the dress samples?”  She groaned.  The three, aquamarine bride’s maid dresses lay on the bed.  They had come in the mail two days prior.  This was such an inconvenient time to be a good friend.

“It’s better.  Forgot about the dresses.  I’ll do that now.”

Stumbling into the bedroom, Irene snagged the first dress.  A filly, low cut thing made of stretchy material.   She put it on and stared down at it.  It hung loose.  It looked even worse in the bathroom mirror, sagging off her shoulders.  The fitted seams rolling over themselves.  The amount of weight she had sheared away while not being able to eat was frightening.

She took the dress off.  As she felt the fabric of the other two, her tongue worried at the spot where something was stuck.  A huff.  Returning to the bathroom, she pulled out a length of floss.  Cautiously she brought it to the gap between her second molar and the pig-rat tooth.  With surgical precision, she maneuvered the waxy thread into position and worked at the offending bit of food.

No matter how she angled or pressed or shimmied, it would not come loose.  Her gums started to ache from her efforts.  The floss stained red.  She took to sawing at the piece until it dislodged with a gush of blood.  She spat it all out.  More blood in her mouth.  The little globule in the sink was shiny pale pink.  A fragment of her gums.  The last vestige of Irene’s societally-conditioned insanity.

Screw the contracts.  The wisdom teeth had to go.  They had to go <i>now</i>.

She downed the rest of her prescribed meds.  While she waited for them to kick in, she pulled her little toolbox out of the closet.  The screw driver and hammer were useless.  The crescent wrench had potential though.  She tested its weight on her palm.  If only she could knock the bad teeth out with one good bash.  She drank another glass of wine for good measure.

Eventually, she reached that sweet spot of drunkenness where boldness peaks and coordination is mostly intact.  Opening her mouth, she positioned the tool over one tooth and tightened its jaws.  She wiggled the wrench.  The tooth stood solidly in place.  She pulled up.  Into her mouth.  Away from her mouth.  No give.  No pain either.  Clearly, she needed to pull harder.

Vigorously rocking the tool shook Irene’s head more than it jarred the tooth.  She laid on her side, wrench in the air, and pushed it away from her skull.  She tasted blood.  Yes!  That meant it was working!  She pushed harder.  The toolbox sat within her line of sight.  <i>The hammer</i>.

She snatched it.  Aligned it with the tail end of the wrench.  Cocked her arm back.  Smashed into the wrench.  Cracking.  Crunching.  The blood welled up in her mouth, dripping out in gooey strings of red saliva.

Irene felt a dull ache in her jaw.  She flicked flecks of bone and enamel off the crescent wrench.  Loosened it.  Positioned it over her other pig-rat tooth.  Tightened it.  Swung the hammer.

Somehow, Irene had the wherewithal to dial 9-1-1.  After slurring her address out to dispatch, she fainted.


A year and a half later, Irene scrolled through her phone looking at baby shower theme ideas in the dentist’s waiting room.  A distraction from the fact that this cleaning would be her first time seeing a dentist since the hospital.  Since the emergency root canal she got when the drugs and alcohol wore off.

Charlotte was having a boy, so Irene’s new boyfriend had suggested they do a football theme.  It just made sense.  After all, they were planning on having the party right before the super bowl.  Irene stifled her giggling as he put his advertising expertise to work, explaining all the phenomenal football baby posters they could make.

Charlotte’s husband also thought the idea was excellent until Charlotte put in her two cents.  It fell on Irene’s shoulders to come up with a tasteful, but playful, theme based on teddy bears, cute dinosaurs, or circus animals.  In response, Irene’s boyfriend had secretly come up with a party theme he called <i>Welcome to the Jurassic World Circus</i>.  He intended to put it to use for Halloween.  He was sure Charlotte would never realize she had inspired it.  Irene should have told him to stop.  She encouraged him instead.

“Irene?  We’re ready for you.”

She took a deep breath.  Stood up.  Followed the assistant to the dental chair.  Warily sat down.  Finally laid down when the dentist arrived.  The pick and mirror hovered over Irene’s face.  She reluctantly opened her mouth, wincing as the pick prodded at her teeth and gums.

The dentist tsked as she removed her implements.  “You know what I’m going to say.”

“That I’m supposed to come twice a year.”

“Well… yes, that too.  Right now, though, I’m more concerned about your wisdom teeth.”

“What about them?”

“They <i>really</i> need to come out.”

