A mousy suburban mother of one sat in the examination room with her little son Darren.  His red curls, freckles, and round face matched her own.  This was not the kind of patient Dr. Olivia Smithson was typically called in to handle.  Trauma victims?  Of course.  Rescued suicide attempts?  Sure.  Witnesses to violence that deserved a gentle touch but the police desperately needed information from?  Not Olivia’s favorite, but that situation came up from time to time.  A woman seeking DNA testing to confirm that her son was biologically hers?  That was a new one.

“So, Mrs. Cranshaw—“

“Oh please, Pauline.”

“Pauline, one of the nurses asked me to speak with you before we give you the results of the test.  We’re trying to understand why you thought it was necessary…”  Olivia flipped through pages in her clipboard.  “And perhaps we should let Darren go play in the waiting room while we talk.  I can ask one of the nurses to watch him.”

“No, no.  Best not to let him out of my sight.”

“You’re sure?”  Olivia’s eyebrows rose.  She hoped Pauline understood that this conversation might not be a good thing for a young boy to hear.  He was probably under enough strain as is with his mother believing him like an imposter.

Pauline nodded genially.  “It’s all right.  He knows why we’re here.”

Olivia suppressed a sigh.  “Our records show that Darren was born in this hospital.  We’re very happy that our service has been good enough to keep you coming back.”

“Oh, everyone’s always so polite and friendly here.  I tried one of the bigger hospitals once, but I felt like a cow being moved along a conveyer belt.  No one answered my questions.  No one remembered who I was—even when we had just less than an hour before!”

“I have to admit, the atmosphere is what keeps me working here.  But anyway, the nurse was a little confused why you think this boy might not be your Darren.  He looks just like the boy in Darren’s file.”

“That is the pickle, isn’t it?  He does so look like my Darren.  He isn’t though.”

“Why are you so sure?”

“Because my Darren got lost and never returned.  This boy showed up in his place instead.”

“Could you tell me a little more about when Darren got lost?”

“Well… it was about a month ago.  Halloween night.  Darren was so excited to dress up as a bull shark.  Actually, the pattern I found was for a great white, but Darren couldn’t tell the difference.  He was as happy as could be with his little fins and the rows of felt teeth on his hood.

“I even got him a fish-shaped pail, so he could pretend to eat it while he was collecting candy.  I convinced him that sharks don’t like sweets, to keep him from munching through all his candy before we got home.  I was hoping to prevent him from making himself sugar-sick this year.

“We left the house as sun was setting.  He whined a bit about it not being dark yet, but he got over it as he saw the other children coming out.  We met up with my friends Sarah, Gretchen, and Don to let our kids go door-to-door together.  The little muffins formed quite the group!

“Val was dressed up as a fairy princess with LEDs sown into her dress.  Tia was a robot with glow-in-the-dark buttons, knobs, and eyes.  Her brother Willy was a majestic Christmas lion, wrapped up in string lights on a battery pack.  Apparently, it’s from his favorite book.  We joked that he was the lion from <i>The Wizard of Oz </i>though.  That poor child is frightened of everything.  Finally, Darren’s best friend Otto was dressed up as some kind of stingray draped in glowing seaweed.  He and Darren loved their sea animals.”

“Quite a mix of customs.  And plenty of eyes to keep track of all the little ones.”

“Yes, that’s exactly why we were together!  That and Don had brought along a cooler of water bottles and adult beverages.  A little bit of alcohol helps bring some of the magic back into trick-or-treating.  Things didn’t work out quite as we had planned though.”

“Oh?”

“As much as we wanted to hang back and enjoy the spooky inflatables, fake grave yards, and giant skeletons, the kids rushed from house to house.  Screaming all the way, of course.  We had to stay close to keep reminding Tia <i>not</i> to enter the houses.  I swear, if that girl would share any of her bravery with her brother, they would both be better for it.

“With all the dashing about, we caught up to another group of trick-or-treaters.  I didn’t know the parents as well, but Gretchen did.  We all started talking and ended up as a big group.  There must have been a dozen children running about.  Ringing doorbells.  Greeting the costumed dogs.  Blowing the whistles that we will never forgive Frank for handing out.

“As night set in, I realized why all Darren’s friends had light up customs.  It was so much easier to track the children that way.  Every time Darren flitted into a dark patch, I lost track of him until my flashlight beam passed over him.  I told myself to remember that for next year.  At the very least, I could put some glow bracelets on him.  He had loved wearing them at the Fourth of July party we had earlier this year.

“Eventually, we reached a crossroads where the other group wanted to go straight, but we had already done those houses.  Saying our goodbyes, we turned right to follow the circuit home.  Unfortunately, this took us down a dark connector street cutting through the line of houses.  There were no driveways along it and no lights.  All we had was moonlight, and it was a cloudy night.

“Halfway down that stretch, I looked around for my boy but did not see him.  Nor did my friends.  We asked the kids where Darren was, and they looked at each other, shrugging.  Flustered, I told the group to go on ahead.  Darren must have continued with the other trick-or-treaters instead of following us.

“I quick walked in the direction of the squealing and screaming.  When I reached them, I did not see Darren in the pack of children.  I asked the parents if they had picked up a straggler.  One told me that she had seen Darren trading candy with her boy at the crossroads, but Darren and run down the alley once they were done.

“Confused, I turned back to rejoin my friends.  Somehow, Darren and I must have missed one another when I was walking back and he was catching up.  Except that isn’t what happened.  He was not with my friends.  We backtracked, calling Darren’s name.  Knocking on houses to ask if a shark boy had stopped by alone.

“I was ready to call the police when my phone buzzed.  My husband.  Darren had walked home by himself.  We were all relieved.  Leaving my friends to let them finish up their night, I hurried home to see my Darren.

“I showered that boy with hugs and kisses and warnings to never scare his mommy like that again!  He silently accepted it all but did not hug me back.  Darren was always an affectionate boy, so that was odd.  When I asked him how we got separated, he said nothing.  I turned to my husband, but he shook his head.  Darren had not said a word since he came home.  That was when I started to suspect something was wrong.”

Olivia shifted her position.  “It’s not uncommon for children to go silent in response to stress.”

“Oh yes, I know!  Darren takes strongly after my husband.  Once when he was a child, he stopped talking for an entire year, because he was upset with his parents.  I was worried that Darren was doing the same.  That he thought I didn’t care about him, because we got separated.  

“Even more concerning was the fact that he didn’t seem to know where his room was.  I had to lead him to it.  I hoped a good night’s sleep would cure him, but he was equally confused the next morning.  When I asked him what he wanted for breakfast, he was silent.  I pulled down the boxes of his cereal and my cereal and asked him again.  My vain hope that he would point at his cereal was squashed.  He did nothing.

“To push him, I poured him a bowl of my cereal.  He ate it.  Olivia, Darren hates bran flakes.  He only eats his Lucky Charms because of the colorful marshmallows.  And the cereal was just the start.  The boy in my house had no idea how to be Darren.  He watched different tv shows.  He played with different toys.  He wanted nothing to do with Otto.  He’s not Darren.”

“Let me stress again: behavioral changes are not uncommon when a child has gone through a traumatic event.  Maybe something happened while Darren was alone.  Have you considered taking him to see someone?”

“I did.  I would have, except for one thing: anytime this boy is told that Darren used to do something, he immediately starts doing it.  He eats his Lucky Charms now and turns his nose up at my bran flakes.  When my husband asked if the boy wanted to watch Darren’s favorite show, it became the only thing he wanted to watch.”

 “He wants us to believe he’s Darren.  That’s not a child dealing with stress, that’s a child lying.”

“Pauline—“

Pauline rotated to face the child.  “And if he would just tell us who he is, why he’s doing this, where Darren went… We could work something out.  If he’s running from his parents and needs a safe place to go, we can provide that.  I just want my son back.”  She returned her gaze to Olivia.  “I need to prove to him that I know he’s not mine.  That there’s no point in lying anymore.”

Olivia swallowed.  “So, you’re here to prove that this is <i>not</i> your son.”

“I hope to yes.  Have you looked at the results?”

“Yes.”

Pauline’s shoulders shank.  “We wouldn’t be talking if they proved me right.”

“No, I imagine not.”

Pauline let out a deep sigh.  She pointed to the boy.  “So, this is Darren’s body.”

“That boy is Darren.”

Shaking her head as she stood, “I know for a fact he’s not.”

“Pauline, that—“

“Can I have the results?”

“Yes, of course—“

Pauline’s hand shot out under Olivia’s nose.  Olivia pulled the results from her clipboard and relinquished them.  Staring at the paper, Pauline took the boy’s hand and led him to the door.  She paused at the threshold.  “So… I’m not dealing with a strange boy anymore.  I’m dealing with something wearing Darren’s skin.”

