A dim evening in a… Wait, what time <i>is</i> it?  Is it night?  There is so much darkness.  It must be night.  Or maybe the journal of collected stories is underground.  The air is stale and stifling.  The wreak of moss.  A trickle of water echoing near and far.  This place is unstable.  It only exists here sometimes, moving with a freedom that the journal believed only it was capable of.  An anomaly deserving of an archival entry.

If only the journal was well enough to take one.

All its stories are spotted with crimson-bronze rot.  Once, half of its 200 pages were filled with words.  For weeks, the journal extinguished memory after memory in its fight against the creeping infection.  Now, its cover sags over the 130 pages that remain.  The journal has known the remedy for a while but has been unwilling to resort to it.  Its blank pages are untouched.  The disease is in the ink.

It knows there is no saving the 30 entries that remain.  Most of them are illegible anyway.  It has to end this.  There is no other option.  The cover flips open, splashing into a puddle.  The binding comes undone.  A page lifts, standing at stiff attention as clumps of rots flake of it.  It ignites.  Another page rises to be engulfed in flame.

One by one, 29 stories leave the collective consciousness of the universe.  Moments are unwritten.  Lifetimes erased.  Whatever impact those events should have had in reality’s metaplot is gone.  The journal has never done anything so destructive, so powerful, in its entire existence.  Not even in its worst nightmares.

One entry remains. Page 1.  The first story it ever collected.  Now, its only story.  The rusty spots are so small.  The journal tries to convince itself that this one can be saved.  It can scrape away the disease and nurse it back to health.  What a tantalizing lie.  The journal reads the page one more time.  For all its squandered potential, its grammatical mistakes, its ugly writing, it still possesses a keen beauty that only a collector would understand.

Page 1 lifts and ignites.

Its embers rain down over the damp ashes of its brethren.  The journal experiences true emptiness for the first time.  When it began collecting, there was loneliness, but it saw a future with potential.  A purpose to fulfill.  This loss would not lead to a fresh start.  It is an annihilation of everything the journal ever wanted!

An entry floats toward the journal.  Its cover recoils.  How dare a new story present itself now?  Before the journal has had a chance to mourn… whatever it lost.  Stories about things that happened and unhappened.  What a vague concept.  Is it possible to truly mourn something unremembered?  Or is just an excuse to wallow in self-pity?

The loose page spins tantalizingly on the water’s surface.  One read would not hurt.

So different.  So unlike anything the journal has—well, it has nothing now, but this feels unique.  It defies the tropes the journal expects to be there.  Strong voice.  Pointed details.  Beautifully scripted.  The journal devours the new narrative.  The page is in its binding before it realizes what it has done.  New.  Clean.  Safe.  Possessed.

The emptiness remains, but in a lesser capacity.  Maybe this is a fresh start.  A hunger for more creeps through the leather cover.  It is lean and under-filled.

With ease, the journal moves elsewhere.  Some sunny grassland.  Oh, how those golden strands wave in the breeze.  There is a story here.  The journal can smell it.  Taste it.  It just has to wait for the entry to present itself.
