“Sooooo… are you coming to the party tonight?” Chloe leaned back against the locker next to mine, twirling her hair.  One of my fake friends.  She had been not so subtly asking me out all week.

Don’t think it was because I was some hotshot.  I’m on the better-looking end of average, but my manufactured persona was on the socially acceptable end of nerdy.  I was the pitiable member of the popular clique.  The one tolerated because I helped the real members get good grades.  Exactly the right build to piss off her ex.

“Look, I really wanted to go, but I’m swamped.  I’ve got tests all next week, and I need to be up early for my job on Saturday.”

She crossed her arms.  “Can’t you study in detention?”

How did she hear about that?  I gave her a poker face.  “That doesn’t fix Saturday.”

“Fine.  I see how it is.  I’ll find <i>someone else</i> to go with.”  Sparing me a disappointed eye roll, she exited stage right.  She’d be okay.  There were three other guys in the fake friends group drooling over her.  My slight against her would be forgotten in less than 24 hours.

Slamming my unit shut, I walked down the locker-clad hallway with my backpack slung over one shoulder.  The hall merged into the main thoroughfare of the high school’s newer section.  Its walls were decorated with paper pumpkins and ghosts.  A set of graveyard-themed jelly stickers stuck to the windows.  A poster announced a school-hosted dance, designed to keep the teens off the streets while the kids did trick-or-treating.  That was not the party Chloe wanted to go to.

I took the nearest set of stairs to the second floor and bee lined to the back of the school.  There were only two routes into the old section.  One led to the advanced science labs, while the other ended with foreign language classrooms.  The first route was the only way to reach the stairs to the old basement.  My real friends’ preferred haunt.    My boot steps clanged as I spiraled down the metal staircase.

“About time, Elijah.”  Derek.  My best friend.  A budding pyromaniac and wanna-be skater boy.  Thus far, none of his exploits had been linked to him.  He knew better than to openly admit to his worst offenses.  Still, there was no doubt in my mind that he was the one setting everyone’s trashcans on fire last Fourth of July.  He liked to think of himself as the leader of our secret gang, so I let him.

I hopped down the last three steps.  “You-know-who ambushed me again.”

“You know, if you just went on <i>one</i> date with her, she’d stop asking.  You have that kind of personality.”  Todd.  The crowned king of school losers and the newest member of our trio.  Through middle school , he had been the magnet for our local bully, John.  Until it suddenly stopped.  John had avoided him since.  Todd never told us what happened, but every time we asked, this creepy smile lit up his face.  He was definitely one of us.

The two guys sat on an abandoned table in the middle of the empty entry way.  A concrete room with cracked flooring and an array of locked doors to one side.  I hopped onto the table complete our usual triangle.   “Why would I waste my precious personal time with an attention-seeking slut?”

“Would it be better if she had a dick?”

I cocked my head to the side.  A smocking show of having a think on it.  In truth, I legitimately considered the question.  “Maybe.”

While Derek snorted, I watched Todd’s eyes for a reaction.  I was pretty sure he was oblivious to the fact that I had a crush on him.  I always hoped I might see something to tell me whether he would be into the idea of us being a thing.  Whether I saw hunger or revulsion, I would be fine with either.  I just wanted an answer without making things weird between us by asking.  Nothing.  He face-palmed at my retort.

“Well, gentlemen,” Derek began, “now that we’ve assembled, let’s discuss the night’s activities.  I believe it’s your turn, Elijah.”

“You <i>know</i> it’s my turn.  You got my tools?”

Todd clapped his hands together.  “Oh, look at our little artist!  So excited to spread his creative wings!”

Derek reached under the table and grabbed a duffle bag.  I pulled it closer, unzipped it, and counted the spraypaint cans.  Six.  All in glow-in-the-dark, neon green.  “What, you couldn’t get yellow?”

“The Ace only had three of the yellow in stock.”

“The Ace in town or the Ace in Bunkie?”

A long pause.  “I had no intention of driving all the way to Bunkie for <i>spraypaint</i>.”  Despite his deep, thoughtful lecturer’s voice and indignantly large vocabulary, Derek could be so dumb.

Todd examined one of the cans.  “The green will do.  I bet aliens are colorblind anyway.”  He shook it vigorously then popped the cap.  He snatched Derek’s wrist and sprayed a line up his arm.

“Really!?”  Derek ripped his arm away.

Todd clicked his tongue.  “It’s not very glow-y…”

“It has to absorb sunlight before it’ll glow.  As long as Elijah works swiftly, it’ll be charged by nightfall.”
 
I took the can from Todd.  “That’s my cue to leave.  Did we decide which house we’re doing movies at?”

“Todd’s.  His parents are out of town.  I’ve got the alcohol covered.”

Opening my backpack, I pulled out a copy of <i>Dead Alive</i>.  “My contribution.  We’re watching it this year.”

Todd took it grimacing.  “Horror comedies are lame though.”

“It’s not a comedy like <i>Shaun of the Dead</i>.  Trust me.  It’s got some stupidly gory scenes.”  As I packed up the spraypaint, Todd’s expression remained incredulous.

Derek shoved his digital camera into my hand.  “I want to see it without seeing it.  I’ll burn the photos tomorrow.  Promise.”

“You don’t need to.  I know you’ll take any excuse to light a fire.”  I added the camera to my backpack and zipped it up.  “All right, see you guys after dark.”

Gleefully, Todd sang, “Don’t get caught!  You’ll be in enough trouble for skipping detention today.”


Twenty minutes of biking through the woods later, I reached my destination:  The Slab.  A big, flat concrete sheet out in the middle of nowhere for no good reason.  Derek always lamented that flatness.  He though the spot was begging to be a skate park.  Once, we drove out to the highway to steal some of the concrete barriers to make ramps.  As soon as he got closer a look at them, Derek nixed the plan.  They were too straight.  He looked into buying concrete and making some ramps himself, but the project was too expensive and time consuming.

Leaving my biking leaned against a pine tree, I stepped up three inches onto the Slab.  Even though I had been here dozens of times, the place still creeped me out.  My steps echoed as I walked down the middle, leaving me with the same question I always had: what the hell was the sound bouncing off of to echo?

The legends surrounding this place were endless, but my favorite story was the one about rich man Lavigne.  He was the second owner of the lumber company that founded the town.  When the original owner died, Lavigne left his wife at home in New Orleans while he got his business interests in order.  Once he saw the work involved, he knew he would have to move here permanently to keep up with the company.  That said, living with the loggers in town was beneath him.

Through his connections back in France, he commissioned a design for a marvelous mansion.  The lumber company cleaned the woods from his lot, and he hired a construction team from New Orleans to build his dream home.  By the time they broke ground, a year had passed since he had seen his wife.  He sent her a letter telling her to join him.  Took her a month, but she eventually shows up.  And she’s pregnant.

Lavigne lost his mind that she dared to cheat on him.  That night, he shot her, threw her into the unfinished basement, and cemented over her.  When the construction team showed up the next morning, he was still pouring concrete.  He told them his wife had run off with another man, so there was no point in building the house anymore.  The team helped him finish filling the hole.

Soon after, Lavigne sold the company and moved back to New Orleans.  Remarried.  Had a grand rest of his life.  Never thought again about the body he left up here.

What he didn’t know was that the trauma of being shot was not what killed his once-dear wife.  Nor was he aware that when he tossed her into the basement, she went into labor.  She was giving birth while he buried her.  Now, on moonless nights, Mrs. Lavigne drifts around the Slab, her bloody preterm fetus in her arms, still connected to her by the umbilical cord.

Man, I love that story.  If we ever got a chick to join our friends group, her initiation ceremony would be to dress up as Mrs. Lavigne on a dark night.  White dress, stained with blood.  A baby doll in her arms.  I bet if we filled a long sausage casing with water it would make a great umbilical cord.  The rest of us would feed her victims from the school to terrorize.  That’s the stuff of dreams.

Sadly, I was not here to riff off that legend.  The most popular story was that some tinfoil-hat-wearing kook poured the Slab to make an alien landing pad.  He eventually got abducted and anally probed.  You know.  The usual.  Sci-fi was never my thing, but we had to hit on the pulse of the masses to make a big splash.

As I pulled the plan out of my wallet, I dropped my backpack onto the concrete and sat down.  I unfolded the piece of paper, studying it as I shook the spraypaint cans.  Todd’s drawing was surprisingly precise.  Patience and focus were not usually his strong suits, but apparently he liked geometry.

He had measured the Slab’s rectangular dimensions and drawn it on grid paper.  A dotted line marked the largest square that fit in the center of the Slab.  A perfect circle matching the square was drawn in bold, yellow highlighter.  A second circle existed inside of it, lined in thinner yellow.

An intricate array of alternating crosses and xs decorated the space between the circles and along the outer margin.  Simultaneously ordered and chaotic.  The center was blessedly empty.  It would take enough time to work in all Todd’s edge details.

I left the concrete long enough to grab a stick.  Todd’s note demanded that I place it in the drain hole drilled through the very center of the Slab.  I pried up the little grate cover and stuck the stick in the pipe.  It dropped a foot downwards.

When I returned to my backpack, I pulled out a spool of white twine, scissors, and measuring tape.  Referencing Todd’s notes, I cut the twine to length for the long circle. I tied one end to the stick and the other to the spraypaint can.

With my string compass assembled, I began my circuit around the Slab.  It took four passes and a can and a half to get the paint line thick enough.  I shortened the string for the second circle.  Thankfully, that only took two passes.  Todd’s notes detailed using the string to place his chaotic crosshatch lines correctly.  My gaze went from his notes, to my green-stained hand, to the sky.

Derek had made a big deal about how we had to make this thing look good from the aerial view.  He was certain the news would take pictures of it, like the rubes they are.  A little bit of spray fuzz on the ground would be lost in that distance, but if the pattern was wonky, it would look like crap.  I sighed.  I followed Todd’s instructions to the painstaking letter.

The final line was drawn with the second to last spraypaint can.  Exhausted, I swore I would never take on another art project prank.  Fool me once, shame on you.  Fool me twice, and I’m a damn stooge and deserve what I get.  I sat down by my backpack.  It was be at least another half hour until sunset, when I could get Derek’s photos.  Laying down, I closed my eyes and let my thoughts wander.

They didn’t go anywhere.  For all my comfortably smug arrogance, my inner world was pretty bland and empty.  Sure, I had a wonderful pair of deviant friends to bedevil the town with as a part of our version of <i>Fightclub</i>.  We liked the same things, they made me laugh, they had my back, and none of us were going places.  It was painfully obvious that we were living our peak.

And what the hell was I doing hanging out with the popular kids?  Derek and I liked to exchange knowing winks and nods about <i>the grand plan</i>.  My <i>infiltration</i> of the <i>upper echelon</i>.   I felt the dangerous potency of my position.  Knew there was an ultimate game somewhere in it.  But I had no idea what it was.  And I wasn’t trying very hard to figure it out.

Now and then, I wondered if I really was the pathetic kid I pretended to be around the socialites.  Just a lonely, little boy wanting to fit in.  I always dismissed it.  If I had wanted to, I could sweep them all off their feet in whirlwind of charm and charisma.  Flattering the self-absorbed isn’t exactly rocket science.

I think I just liked being on the edge.  Feeling that the world could tilt in any direction.  It engineered a sense of momentum my real life lacked.  That emptiness had to be the driving force behind my endless, crazy scheming.


The sun went down, and I opened my eyes with a stretch.  Rolling onto my feet, I grabbed the camera.  Whatever Derek thought he would see in my photos was probably not what I captured.  The design was too large to get in frame, so I snapped pictures of random sections from awkward angles.  The task complete, I returned to my backpack to put my tools away.  I had worked up a well-earned thirst for beer and Hollywood blood.

As I picked up the spraypaint cans, a whirring hiss echoed through the clearing.

I looked up.  That you, Mrs. Lavigne?  The Slab was empty.  Still.  I waited.  The sound came again.  From the center of the concrete.  Rolling my steps silently, smoothly from heel to toe, I approached the stick.  Silly of me to have forgotten about it.  I untied the string and removed it from the pipe, begging whatever was making the sound to do it again.

As I rolled up the string, the hiss emanated from the pipe.  I dropped to my belly, putting my ear to the ground to listen.  The hiss faded, but a halting sliding persisted underneath it.  Something was down there.  Goosebumps rose across my skin in anticipation.

My eyes darted around.  Oh, what I would have given for a flashlight right then.  I jumped to my feet.  Walked the perimeter of the Slab.  Tried to be methodical but rushed the job with a sureness that the way inside would reveal itself just ahead.  Nothing.  I shouldn’t have expected to find anything.  Derek, Todd, and I had looked a year ago, trying to justify the existence of the drainage hole.  There was nothing then.

We had only checked the Slab itself though.  I squinted at the forest.  No chance.  Too dark.  Defeated, I mumbled a swear and returned to my bike.  Mounted it.  Turned on the headlight.  My mom had installed the light in the center of the handlebars because I was always out so…  I looked down at my light.  Never before had I been so grateful to have a mother.

I unscrewed the light from the handlebars with my scissors.  Shining it around the trees, I smirked.  It was stronger than a flashlight.  The next question was where to search.  I waited for the hissing to come again.  A whisper.  I moved to the center left side of the Slab and waited again.  The sound was louder, but only because I was nearer to the drain hole.  I tried the far end next.

This time, I heard a secondary whirring from the forest.  Giddy, I kicked through layers of pine needles and ferns.  Anytime I heard the hiss, I froze, trying to pinpoint it.  As I got closer, it sounded like it was coming from everywhere.  A disorienting rustling tormenting me.

My foot landed on something hard.  I dropped to my feet.  Swiped away the needles, ripped up plants, scraped my fingers against stone and metal.  Yes!  There it was!  A concrete square with a textured steel trapdoor.  I reached for the latch.  Pulled.  Unbelievably, it opened.  Below, a staircase led back in the direction of the Slab.

I fell into a fit of mad giggling.  This could NOT be real!  These things were NEVER real!  I went down the first step and stopped.  My heart pounded.  My skin lit up with an electric chill.  I was afraid.  My head listed to the side as a twitchy smile curved into the left side of my face.

When was the last time something had scared me?  Movies never did anything for me.  The one time I went to a rollercoaster park, all I felt was the adrenaline.  I was free of any specific phobias.  Then I remembered.  It must have been that time I went fishing.

As a little kid, my dad had always taken me.  It was our bonding time on the weekends.  But as I got older and my dad earned promotions, his promise of “we’ll go next week” stopped being words.  I went out by myself for a month.  That turned into years.  Eventually, I quit fishing.

One time when I was alone, I got blue catfish on the hook.  It must have weighed as much as I did.  Just keeping it from snapping the line was all I could do for hours.  Eventually, it wore itself out, and I reeled in that mega-fish.  For the last few feet, it entirely gave up.  Floating on the top of the water, it drifted easily to my boat.

The net was nowhere near big enough to catch it.  I leaned over to wrap my arms around the swamp monster.  My touch startled it.  Its tail slammed into the boat.  I went careening into the water.  When I resurfaced, I couldn’t touch the bottom with my feet.  And yet, like the stupid boy I was, my first thought was to not let that fish get away.

I grabbed my rod and went back to reeling.  As if.  Without the extra weight of the boat grounding me, the fish tugged me forward.   I was getting closer to it but further from safety.

There was no warning splash.  No disturbance in the water surface to reveal its presence as it glided towards us.  A gator’s mouth launched out of the water and over my catfish.  Biting.  Diving.  A writhing of scales as it wrestled and rolled with the catfish.  A flash of the fish’s gaping, toothless mouth.  It eyes bulging out of its skull.

My screaming mouth filled with water as I abandoned my rod, kicking towards the boat.  I tried to climb into it.  My wet hands lost their grip.  More swamp gushed down my throat as I panicked.  On the second attempt, I made it.  Flopped onto the bottom of the boat.  Half a second to get a deep breath.  I rolled over and vomited out the water I had swallowed down.

In a brilliant green patch of duckweed, my fish floated on its side.  Its fins quivering in the black water.  A massive chunk of its side was gone.  As it tried to right itself, the gator’s nose emerged.  Daintily, it took the fish by the tail and pulled it under.

I went out fishing again the next week.  Alone.  Unafraid.

Finally feeling some semblance of that buzzing horror now was erotic.

Easing out a shallow breath, I considered the possible dangers.  Cave in?  Unlikely.  Crazy serial killer living under the Slab?  No one had been murdered in town in my lifetime.  Mrs. Lavigne?  It would be an honor to make her acquaintance.  No probable threats came to me.

My feeling must have been one of those “I know ghosts aren’t real, but—“ moments.  An irrational fear that arises in other people after they watch a scary movie late at night.  The emotional brain forgets that the media it just consumed was all fantasy.  In other words, I could safely indulge in this.

I descended the staircase.  The room below smelled of must and damp.  Despite the layer of dust, the space looked new.  No cracks in the concrete.  No rust or chipped paint on the steel girders lining the high walls.  The hissing came again.  Louder.  Closer.  With undertones of a hummed rumble.  Breathing.  Nothing was in the entry way, but a door stood in the far wall.

My trembling hands tested the handle.  Unlocked.  The door had a glass window.  Shining my light through it, I pressed against the pane to look beyond it.  A large, empty, featureless room.  How anticlimactic.  My fear waned.  Another inhale and exhale from the darkness.  It sounded like it was against the door, but there was nothing there.  My skin prickled.

Yes, I knew I should leave well enough alone, but how could I?  I might never have another chance to brush against whatever impossible thing was in the room. I entered.  As I walked through puddles, tinny splashes complemented my boot steps.  A pool of light on the ceiling called me.

The drain.  In the abyssal darkness of the Slab’s basement, that little bit of brilliance was blindingly bright.  My brow furrowed.  If that light was coming from the sky, then what exactly had my stick rested on earlier?  The moon was nowhere near full either.  Baffled by the light’s origin, I glanced down.

It lit up a design on the floor.  An infinity sign.  It started thin but thickened throughout its curves until it ended in an oval that overlapped the start.  Above the oval, the design was bounded by the top bar of a fancy T, its ends pointing straight down.  A symbol I had never seen before.

A gruff, rumbling inhale at my side.  My eyes shot to the source, but there was nothing there.  The exhale’s rumbling evolved into a dry clicking.  My hand reached into the space and touched something invisible.  Smooth and sleek.  Hard but flexible.  The exhale silenced itself.  I placed my second hand beside the first.  My fingers found more of the polished surface, but my palm landed on something gritty.  When I pulled my hand back to investigate, I found a crumbling of orange dust.

Heavy sliding behind me.  I turned to see a wall of emerald green and black scales.  It filled half the height of the room, and each plate was as large as my head.  The armor was broken by patches of orange and brown rust.  The wall flexed as it breathed, its ragged edges ghosting in and out of visibility.  I panned my light around the room.  More fragments of scales bled into reality, like a gator’s head breaking the surface of the water.

The clicking started again, out of sync with the breathing.  A new segment rolled though existence.  Its scales gave to a series of massive, bony rings that clacked against one another.  They narrowed, ending in a rounded, cannonball tip before disappearing.  I had just seen its tail.  This thing was a rattlesnake.  The infinity sign on the floor was a twisted ouroboros.

A haze of hot breath assaulted me.  I stumbled away, expecting a mouth with fangs.  Losing balance, I rammed into a rigid coil of snakeskin.  The rattle kicked off a thunderous chorus.  A booming like gunshots ricocheting off metal.  I slammed my heads over my ears.  They did nothing.

My bones rumbled in time with the rattle.  My tissues threatened to tear apart.  My screaming was silent amid that roaring.  I stopped seeing.  Stopped hearing.  Stopped feeling everything but the earth-shattering shaking.


When I came to, my body buzzed from the memory of the sound, but I was fine.  The light was still in my hand.  Shining it around, I saw the intermittent walls of scales rising and falling gently.  A deep smile stretched across my face.  What an honor this was.  To be summoned to Her.

I tried to stand, but my knees would have none of it.  The heat wave that passed over me reeked of iron and sand.  A flicker of black as Her forked tongue reached into this plain to taste me.  Was that why She brought me here?  She was hungry?

I held my arms out, ready for Her massive jaws to envelop me.  The tongue came again, its slick tip clipping the side of my cheek.  I reached out to where Her nose should have been and only felt air.  Her mouth was elsewhere.  The tongue was only here to greet me.

“I guess that means you have more work for me, Degun.”

She gave no response.  She never did.  It was my job to <i>figure out</i> what my job was.  Given that I was still alive, I was pretty good at that.  I gave my legs the command to rise again.  This time they listened.  I left the inner sanctum and ascended the stairs.  After burying the entrance, I went to collect my new backpack and… spraypaint.

Shaking a full can, I looked at the glowing design on the concrete.  The circles looked nice, but the center was so dreadfully empty.  Especially when I had so much extra paint.  I used up the can writing a simple devotion:  <i>I believe</i>.


“So, who’d you take to the party?”

“Why are you so interested?”  Chloe slammed her locker shut and stalked down the hallway.

I fell into step beside her.  “I guess I’m not if you’re over it.  Otherwise, I was going to offer you my company the next time you and <i>oh-so-interesting</i> Aaron have another tragic breakup.”

“I never said I was back with Aaron.”  Under her indignant tone, I heard a note of uncertainty.  “And just because I was feeling desperate last Friday doesn’t mean I am now.”

I shrugged.  “All right.  Like I said, if you’re not interested, neither am I.”  I turned to leave.

“Elijah?”

“Mhm?”  When I looked back, she looked down.

“N-nothing.  I’ll see you at lunch.  You better know how to do the chemistry homework.”  She scurried off to class.  I shook my head.  Too easy.  We’d be together before the week was up.  I just had to settle on the right way to deal with her ex to propel myself to the center of the—

“Where you been?”

That voiced sounded familiar... Derek.  Right.  I had forgotten about the <i>other</i> friends.  Derek had spoken in short words, strung into a grammatically incorrect phrase.  Clearly, he was angry.  The question was: did I care?  Without looking at him, “You know you’re breaking the first rule of <i>Fightclub</i>.  It was your idea that we only meet up—”

He swung in front of me.  “You ditched movie night.  You screwed up the design.  You left behind evi—!”  His voice fell to a hush.  “You left empty spraypaint cans.”

I had done that, hadn’t I?  Oops.  Oh well.

“You know who bought them?  Me.  You know whose door the police knocked on?!”

“Look, I messed up.  If there’s too much heat, just blame it on me.”  I pulled off my backpack and kneeled down to unzip it.  “Something came to me while I was drawing Todd’s design.  An epiphany.  Now, I know what the next steps in the <i>grand plan</i> are.”

For a moment, Derek looked intrigued.  He crossed his arms.  “That’s not an excuse for ditching us.”

I handed him his camera.  “Look, let’s talk after class.  Give me the benefit of the doubt until then.”

“Fine.  Your epiphany better be goddamn phenomenal.”

A four-syllable word.  He’d get over my little betrayal.  “It is.”  I waved him off.  For now, I would keep him in check.  Having the wildcards in my back pocket felt like a valuable investment.  If nothing else, Derek and Todd would make for excellent pawns.
