Behind the door to my closet is another door that should not be there.  I know it leads to the townhouse’s attic.  It has to.  But I never found its other side.  There is a barren wall in the attic where the door should be.

The thing is, the attic seems too small inside.  Once, I measured its dimensions.  It’s a few feet shy of the floorplan specs.  The door does not exist on floorplan.  I checked.  Three times.

I never opened the door that should not be there.

In fact, I stopped myself from even looking at it by keeping the closet shut.  When I moved in, before I realized that the door that should not be there could not exist, I had decided not to use the closet.  I had few possessions, and my bedroom was large.  Uncomfortably large.

I wish I had noticed that when I toured the place.  The open house’s set dressing hid the emptiness.  The too-much-distance between my bed and the closet.  The too-many-steps to reach the single light switch by the exit.

To fill that chasm, I scattered my suitcases and some empty boxes about the room.  It simulated a figment of cozy closeness.  So, there was simply no reason to use the closet.  It remained closed.

At least until the day I found it open.  And I turned around and left the house.

I know that sounds extreme.  Afterall, there are so many ways a door becomes open.  Perhaps some curious pet or child or friend or partner or maintenance worker had nosed their way in.  Perhaps I mindlessly jingled the closet’s handle while distracted.  Surely, an AC draft could push it fully open if it were disturbed.  Were these possibilities so hard to believe?

I have no pets or children.

I never felt comfortable enough in the space to bring anyone home.

No serviceman had been contracted onto the premises.

If I had touched the handle, I would have remembered it.  Remembered the stinging in my fingers.  That pricking static that perpetually vibrated through the metal.

No.  Somehow, the closet had opened itself.

I entertained never returning.  Finding a friend to stay with in the interim.  Starting over fresh. 

But that was ridiculous.  Who would take pity on an adult afraid of a closet door?  How could I start over while shouldering the mortgage burden?  How could I sell that horror to another person?!

Besides, the few things I own are precious.  Photos of lost, ethereal moments.  Meaningless notes scrawled on paper scraps that capture the writer‘s essence.  Bits and bobs and junk I accidently picked up along the way.  These are relics of dear memories.  Sentimentality in physical form.  I couldn’t abandon them.

Eventually, I forced myself back into the house.  To walk up the creaky stairs.  To enter the vacuous room.  To stare at the open closet door.

My fingertips briefly contacted its warped wood.  I pushed it shut.

With the grave task completed, I felt relief.  The desire to pack up and run left me.  This was a situation I could handle.  And, as the weeks and months passed, I forgot it happened.  I went on with my life.

The second time I found the closet door open, I was stunned.  But I knew what to do.  I cautiously closed it with a satisfying click.  I thought that would solve the problem for a long while.  I went on with my life.

The third occasion was later that week.  At night.

I wandered into the bedroom with mint on my breath.  My stride wobbled with exhaustion earned from a long day of demanding work.  Collapsing into bed, I expected to be asleep in minutes.

Except my weary gaze drifted aimlessly to the closet.  It looked like it was open.  It had not been open when I walked in.  I had checked.

Despite the electric adrenaline shooting through my veins, I sat up slowly.  My limbs trembled as if I had Parkinson’s.  A dim floor lamp stood by my bed.  I nearly knocked it over turning it on.

The closet was indeed cracked open.

Exhaling stiffly, I tentatively stepped onto the floor.  The lamp’s glow shielded me from the dark as I tiptoed through the room.  Skirting the walls.  Reaching the light switch.  Flipping it on.

Brightness flooded the room with life, banishing the abyssal night.  I could breathe again.  My pulse settled.

Until I looked at the closet door.  It was still open, of course.

Gingerly, I reached out and tapped the handle.  It zapped my fingers before the door clicked closed.  But the deed was done.  I flicked off the main light and returned to bed.  Laying down, I shut off the lamp.  I tried to sleep.

I tossed and turned.  The space around me felt too large.  Too empty.  On instinct, I glanced at the closet.

It was open.

A puny whine murmured out of me as my fists tightened around my blanket.  I fumbled for the lamp with weak hands.  I stumbled to the light switch on legs that protested carrying my weight.  I sank onto the floor as I hit the main light.  <i>Why was the closet door open?</i>

I crawled to it.  Pushed it closed from its bottom right corner.  It gave a satisfactory click.  This time, I knew better than to trust that.  To ensure it was truly shut, I pressed my palm flat against it.

The wood felt warm.  Like someone else had touched it in the same place.  Or as if something on the other side was shedding molten heat.  The board flexed.  My hand flinched back.

However, the door remained closed.

With the task now surely completed, I returned to the light switch.  Oh how I wanted to keep it on.  The thing is, I’ve never been able to sleep with the lights on.  I let the main light die.  I continued deeper into the room.  Closer to the yellow pool of lamplight.

Reaching the midpoint, I heard a squeak.  Whispering hinges cracking the silence.  I knew what had happened without turning around.  But I had to see it anyway.

The closet door was open.

Rage boiled over me that this thing would not hold tight.  That it dared defy my actions, my orders.  I stormed up to it.  Slammed it closed.  Beat my fists on it.  Futilely threw empty boxes before the threshold.  I roared for that godforsaken, useless hunk of plywood coated in too many layers of cheap, drippy paint stay in place! 

Panting filled the air.  Even in the dark, I saw I had dented the wood.   But it was closed.  It was still.

My body remembered how tired it was.  The anger left me.  I dragged myself to bed, keeping an eye on the closet.  It stayed closed.  I turned off the lamp.  It was shut.  I laid down.  The door did not move.  Sleep took me.

When I awoke the next morning, the closet door was wide open.

I don’t know what to do.  Now, every time I close the closet, it opens itself again.  I placed heavy things in front of it.  They were gently pushed aside.  I duct taped it shut and later found the tape politely rolled into cylinders on the floor.  It was as if they had just curled up and fallen off.

Today, I bought a lock.  I’m afraid to install it.  What happens if the closet discovers how to unlock itself?  If that exercise teaches it how to unlock the front door?  I cannot let the closet learn anything else, because the door that should not be there is now cracked open.
