My strongest memories of Grandpa are set in his back garden.  Wildflowers, orchids, azaleas, natives, exotics, ferns, mosses, mushrooms, trees, and even lichens on the tree bark.  Grandpa loved them all.  He found a way to encourage the stubbornest plants to thrive in his messy jungle paradise.

His neighbors gawked at its beauty.  They also mumbled under their breath about the wildflowers shedding seeds into their yards.  Which was true.  Everyone’s lawn was speckled with purple, orange, and white.

That place was my getaway every summer.  My vacation.  My second home.

Naturally, it was where I ended up when I handed my husband the divorce papers.

It was Mom’s idea for me to live with Grandpa.  He was struggling to keep up the garden and house by then.  You can guess which he prioritized.  Mom thought that it would be good for both of us if I helped out.  At least until they could convince him it was time to go into assisted living.

As it turned out, I spent less time cleaning the house than Grandpa did.  We were busy trimming hedges.  Checking soil acidity.  Gently removing the weeds and transplanting them in the community park down the way.

Getting my hands dirty in dappled sunlight was exactly the therapy I needed.  Its peace brought me closure.  Our days were repetitive and mundane, but we were happy as could be.  And when the letter came that February, he was over the moon.

Grandpa belonged to <i>The International Order of Rare and Obscure Flora</i>.  An exclusive society for plant geeks.  They comprised about a hundred members now.  Grandpa had earned his place back when they only allowed for thirty.  At 23 years old, he had been the youngest person ever admitted.

Sprawling gardens surrounded the order’s headquarters.  For nine months a year, the order’s three heads took turns manicuring the grounds.  For the last three months, another member would be invited to take over.  It was a chance to put one’s knowledge, love, and soul into that sacred soil.  Being selected was a member’s ultimate privilege.

Grandpa had applied for that position every year since he joined.  He had never been accepted.  The worst years were those when no one was selected.  The powers that be decided to take on those last three months themselves.  That was how the last four years had gone.

This year though, the letter told Grandpa it was finally his turn.  From June through August, he would be the Grounds Master.

We went out to dinner that night to celebrate.  Italian food.  There was nothing Grandpa loved more than a plate of spaghetti and meatballs.  The next morning, he sent his acceptance confirmation by mail.  Then he turned to me.  And we got down to planning.

The order resided in England’s remote countryside.  Grandpa bought a plane ticket, and I got him a spare umbrella.   While he was away, caring for his garden would be my privilege.  He trusted me to ignore my parents’ scheming.  I would never sell the property to force him into an old folks’ home.

Throughout March and April, books on new horticultural techniques appeared on the coffee table.  He tried to read them but always put them down with a sigh.  Eventually, he admitted, “They say the things I already know, but in words with too many letters.  When did gardening stop being about caring and turn into a science experiment?”

He shrugged it off.  The order was filled with oldsters.  His methods would align with theirs.

When May hit, the excitement ramped up.  Once, I walked in on Grandpa singing some oldy badly out of tune.  Our eyes met in a moment of horrified silence.  He doubled his volume and blasted through the remaining lyrics.  Something tells me he did not know all the words.

Before the letter, Grandpa and knowing-what-day-it-was were strangers.  Afterwards, he bought a calendar to count down the days until his trip.  Every morning, another X crossed off the prior day.  The space between his Xs and the O around his flight date was ever shrinking.

On May 15th, I went to the kitchen to make breakfast and saw that the 14th was unmarked.  Odd, since Grandpa was an early riser.  I knocked on his bedroom door.  No answer.  I tentatively let myself in, calling for him.  No response.  He was still in bed.  I put a hand on his shoulder.

He never woke up.

Apparently, it was a stroke.  Grandpa had begrudgingly gone to the doctor a few years before.  He was warned he was at risk, but he felt fine.  He wanted to live his life to the fullest.  Popping pills to get his blood pressure under control was not included in that.

If I had known about his health, I would have gotten on his case about it.  But he was secretive about that kind of thing.

He willed me his house and garden.  I forget what else he left me.  Or anyone else.  At the reading, I was distracted.  Waiting for Grandpa to waltz into the lawyer’s office.  With a scowl on his face, he would exclaim that he was still quite alive!

When I returned home—returned to <i>his</i> home—it was empty.  Dead.  I found myself drifting from room to room like a ghost.  Family photos.  Stray gardening tools.  The basket overflowing with seed packets.   

These familiar things felt distant.  Detached from myself and their previous owner.  Somehow, my feet took me out the back door.

Standing in the garden staring up at his favorite lemon tree, I finally remembered where I was.  What we had done there.  His life’s work.  His passion.  Falling to my knees, I finally connected with my grief.  My love for him.  The memories that would carry me through this.

Once I was out of tears, my mind wandered to the practicalities.  I would need a job to afford keeping this place.  The house needed to be painted, cleaned, and brightened before it fell to pieces around me.  I had to cancel Grandpa’s plane ticket.

I laughed at myself.  That the<i> ticket</i> was what brought back the tears.  Then it dawned on me.  Being the Grounds Master had been Grandpa’s lifelong goal.  Canceling the ticket meant canceling his dream.  I could never do that.

But I could do something incredibly stupid and maybe a little selfish.

---

On June 1st, I walked along brick paving with my rolled luggage under gloomy English skies.  The order was just ahead.  And good thing too.  This place really was remote.

A taxi had dropped me off on a dirt road an hour prior.  The cabbie said he would run out of gas if he took me any further.  My feet were sore by the time I reached the wrought iron fences.

Beyond the gate, I saw the first garden.  A tiered maze of succulents and tropical ferns that never should have survived so far north.  Grandpa would have been ecstatic.  As for the order’s main building, that remained invisible.  A 15-foot hedge grew behind the fence, blocking my view.

To my right stood a callbox with a camera positioned above it.  Obviously, I was supposed to announce myself there.  I had hoped to make my introduction in person though.  It would be harder to turn me away if I were already inside.

I tried the gate.  Locked.  I glanced up.  It was too tall to climb.  I sighed and pushed the call button.  “Uh… hello?”

After a long pause, there was crackling static.  An old gentleman’s voice crinkled through the speakers.  “Good afternoon.  I don’t suppose you’re here for a tour, are you?  We only do that by appointment, and there’s nothing on the schedule for the next few months.”

Odd.  He sounded distinctly foreign.  Maybe Spanish influenced?  I had thought all three heads would be English to the core.

“Perhaps I should ask more directly.  How can I help you?”

“Sorry, I’m Ellie.  Ellie North.  I’m here on behalf of Ed North.”

“‘On behalf of?’”

“Yeah, he—uh—passed away a couple of weeks ago.  Between the funeral and everything…” I blinked my eyes clear.

“It’s not much, but I’m deeply sorry for your loss.  I never had the opportunity to meet Ed myself, but his articles in our journal were touching.  His passion for the field was evident.  It was why we hoped to have him this year.  A shame we won’t.”

“That’s why I’m here.  Instead of, you know, calling you.  I want to take the job.”

No response.

“Are you still there?”

“Yes.  Sorry.  I don’t quite know how to put this.” A tired sigh whispered through the speaker.  “The grounds are massive.  Much of our collection is delicate.  Even plants that are hardy in other climes require special attention here.  It wouldn’t be fair to expect an amateur to handle it.”

I bit my tongue.  Arguing that he was being rude by presuming I lacked ability would earn me nothing.  “Grandpa taught me everything he knew.  I wouldn’t be here if I didn’t think I could handle it.”

“You’re not even a member of the society.  There was only one North: Ed.”

“There hasn’t been an opening my entire adult life.” After releasing the call button, I added, “And it’s not like you let in a lot of women.”

“I’m sorry to disappoint you, but—” Quiet jangling music.  A ringtone?  “One moment.”  The speaker went silent.

Stepping back, I scanned the surrounding area.  Grassy fields and rolling hills.  The only other feature was a small parking lot that could hold ten cars if everyone parked close.  The one vehicle there now was a rusty, blue pickup truck.  I spied a red gas can in the back.  So, my cabbie’s fuel concerns had been valid.

The speaker remained silent.

I fidgeted with the hedge’s leaves.  They were waxy and sharp.  Hard to hold onto.  They jutted out in all directions.  The top leaves reached for the sky, while the bottom ones dug into the soil.  A tangle of skinny, brown vine had suffocated under their dominion.  I made a note of it, so I would remember to clear out the vine later.

A snapping startled me.  The gates swung open.  Crackling from the speaker, “Hurry up to the main building.”

No further invitation was required.  I pranced inside, sure the gate might close at any second.

Beyond it, I saw a micro plant garden to the right.  A row of greenhouses lined up behind it.  Jumping to look over the short hedge in front of me, I spied a pond with a pier.  To my left, wildflower beds were bounded by rose bushes.  The main building was that way.

Silly of me to have expected a castle.  Or maybe some red brick, academic hall to match their private drive.  The headquarters was a dark, one-story, stone building.  Maybe it was a summer cottage before the order acquired it.  It was still impressive compared to anything my family owned, but, for England, it was anticlimactic.  It would have fit better if the order called itself “Podunk Plant Club.”

When I reached the door, it opened on me.  A tall, 50-something-year-old man in holed blue jeans and a ruffled button-up stared straight down at me.  The deep circles under his eyes spoke to weeks of poor sleep. 

“Indeed…”  In one word, he concentrated a rant’s worth of disparaging sentiment.

I glanced away.  My gaze landed on his hand.  He was pulling his own set of rolling luggage.

“Let’s be perfectly clear with one another,” he started.  “If either Bob or Phil were in the country right now, you would not be here.  But, I’m in a bind.  My number is by the phone.  Text me yours.  You have three days.  If you can manage to not kill everything—”  That same jingle from before.  He ripped his phone from his back pocket and grimaced.

“Is everything all right?”

He huffed.  “My first grandchild is about to be born.  My daughter will never speak to me again if I miss this one.”  His tone was that of a father who knew he consistently failed expectations.

“So… congratulations?”

A pained smile.  “Thank you.  We’ll talk when I get back.”  He brushed past me.  Stopping, he turned and held out a hand.  “It’s Viktor, by the way.”

We exchanged a quick handshake.  Then, he hurried off.  I looked at the main building, taking a deep breath.

Thankfully, the layout was straightforward.  It opened into a lobby that was originally a dining room.  There was a kitchen at the back.  A business area to the left.  Beyond it, flimsy-looking walls that clashed with the cottage’s style created three offices.  To the right, a short corridor of bedrooms.  A quick check proved they were locked.

As I wandered left, I found the landline by a CRT TV showing the gate.  True to his word, Viktor had left a sticky note with his number on the phone.  A pair of damp, dirty work gloves sat next to it.  I texted him my number, wondering what he had been digging around in before I bothered him.

Another scan of the office revealed a cube of cubby holes in the far wall.  A key cabinet.  Most of the keys were numbered, but three had a letter plate.  V for Viktor.  R for Robert.   P for Phillip.  I assumed those keys were for the offices.  I pocketed one of the numbered keys—three—hoping it was for a bedroom.

The corner office had “Viktor” emblazoned in cursive script on a steel plate.  The door was open, so I peeked inside.  On his desk sat a small, sad palm.  Its few remaining leaves were wilted.  A fibrous mold enveloped the dry half of its base, reaching towards its apex.  At least the roots looked okay.  Next to it stood a new pot, a bag of soil, and an anti-fungal.

I finished the job for Viktor.  Potting the plant, watering it, and removing any tissue too damaged to save.  The anti-fungal was out of place though.  This was clearly a mold problem.  Maybe Viktor was so tired he had grabbed the anti-fungal on reflex?

After retrieving apple cider vinegar from the kitchen, I coated the mold in it.  I was careful not to let the acid drip into the new soil.  I would look up the plant’s pH-tolerance that evening.

Crossing the building, I tested the key on the third room.  It worked.  The door opened onto a bed, a desk, a wardrobe, and a wide window overlooking the back gardens.

Afternoon had faded into evening by then.  Even squinting, it was hard to see much.  The back gardens were westward, cast in deep shadow by the tall hedges.  A place to explore tomorrow.

As I left the view, I noticed something odd.  The window was three panes of glass thick.  Why three?  Maybe this old place had insulation problems?

I shrugged it off and went to the kitchen.  Dinner was canned soup.  Cream of mushroom.  Not my favorite, but Viktor had stocked 20 cans of the stuff.

After dinner, I unpacked my belongings and settled into bed.  I spent the evening scrolling the internet for Viktor’s palm and a few other specimens I had not recognized.  I fell asleep with the phone in my hands.

At some obscenely early hour, a gentle tapping on the window roused me.  The rhythm of rain.  I tossed my phone onto the floor and rolled over.

---

The next morning, I got up and, after discovering bread stashed in the freezer, made myself toast.  The coffee was easier to find.  It was also stocked up for the apocalypse.  Viktor must have been a recluse.  He had bought a world of nonperishables.  Enough to tide him over for months.

As I ate, I heard pattering on the front windows.  When I investigated, I found water droplets spattered across it.  As I realized what they were from, the sprinkler hit the window again, startling me.

Across the many gardens, a legion of sprinklers washed the flowers.  Good.  If I had needed to water the plants myself, then nothing else was going to get done.  And I had bigger plans.

That reminded me of Viktor’s palm.  On the way to his office, I sent him a quick text:

<i>Hey, where are the controls for the sprinklers?  It rained last night, but they’re all running.  I don’t want to waste the water.</i>

The palm still looked sad, but the mold was less perky too.  A first step.  I planned to wait another day before attacking the mold again.  My phone chimed.

<i>Don’t worry about it.  There’s a rain meter.  If the sprinklers are on, it didn’t rain enough last night.</i>

<i>Okay, thanks.  Hope you made it in time.</i>

<i>I was late but close enough.  She forgave me.</i>

The bar was that low, huh?  I snapped a picture of the palm.

<i>Also, I did the best I could with this.  I’m about to check out everything else.</i>

My phone chimed again, but I let it be.  Viktor needed to pay attention to his family.  To his new role as <i>grandpa</i>.  The thought cooled my mood.  I shrugged it off.  Viktor and his grandchild had so much to look forward to in this magnificent garden.  Hopefully, Viktor followed the doctor’s orders if he had any health conditions.

I dodged spraying water as I traipsed around the property.  Identifying plants I knew and looking up those foreign to me.  Touching thick succulents and feathery ferns.  Weaving through a crowded rainforest greenhouse with suffocating humidity.  Stumbling into another with dark-tinted windows, so its phosphorescent mushrooms would shine.

My journey ended at the pond.  Frogs jumped indignantly into the water as I passed them.  White frills shark-finned through the water as koi chased my path along the creaky pier.  In their haste, they knocked aside the floating specimen boxes tied to the pier’s posts.

This spot would have been Grandpa’s favorite.  He had always wanted to grow aquatics, but there was no space for it in his garden.  He would have loved everything about this place.  What would he have done to make it better?

Here and there, I had seen a leaf that could be trimmed or a flower ready to be deadheaded.  The gardens were otherwise immaculate.  The largest task before me was removing the vine by the gate.  But I was unsure how to keep the gate open while I worked, so that task was off the table.

It was impressive that Viktor kept so many different species in this state by himself.  No wonder he had looked exhausted.  I pulled out my phone to check the text from earlier.

<i>You said Ed taught you everything.  Did that include dealing with the Voluxia fentera?</i>

I had no idea what that was.  No results came up when I asked the internet for guidance.  The cottage’s bookshelves were stuffed full though.  I bet I could find info in there.

<i>Yes, but I haven’t seen it yet.  Where is it?</i>

After I hit send, a chill passed over me.  What if this was a test?  That “<i>Voluxia</i>” was made up.  I racked my mind for an excuse to save face if I had messed up.  I got lucky.

<i>It’s behind the main building.  You can’t miss it.</i>

I resumed breathing with a relieved sigh.  My phone chimed again.

<i>Are you sure you can handle it?  It’s grown too big, but it’s our only specimen that’s old enough to flower.  The next ones won’t be ready for another decade.  We can’t risk over-pruning it.</i>

<i>I’ll keep that in mind.</i>

I waved goodbye to the writhing koi fish begging for scraps.  On my way to the cottage, I stared up at the blue sky between cloud puffs.  Such a contrast from yesterday.  Odd that it cleared so quickly after it rained.

I checked my weather app.  It had not rained last night, or so it claimed.  Maybe one of the sprinklers by my window was misbehaving.  I would check that after I found the <i>Voluxia</i>.

The leftward grounds behind the cottage were less impressive, but far more exciting.  A traditional garden.  Flowers, vegetables, trees.  Slate stepping stones.  Whimsical blown-glass ornaments.  All of it bounded by logs to keep the raised bed in place.  The sight of plump tomatoes and eggplants improved my outlook on the food situation.

None of it could be the <i>Voluxia</i> though.  I moved on.

The rightward section was lawn and three sheds.  Finally, I spied a tangle of something ugly in the far-right corner.  The closer I got, the uglier it became.  A bushy, olive-green vine mass.  It sported thorns with vibrant purple needle points.  It grew from a contained, woody base.  Above it, a single giant flower bud.

I never had the opportunity to visit a corpse flower, but I knew its size from pictures.  <i>Voluxia</i>’s flower was half again as large, towering over me.  Royal purple veins permeated its dark green sepals.  Each ended with long, yellow whiskers, like Venus flytrap teeth.  Its petals were meant to unfurl like a rose spiral.  Even closed, the bud gave off an invitingly sweet honeydew.

No matter how unsightly the plant’s everyday form was, that flower would be majestic when it opened.  I understood why Viktor was so concerned about it.

Then I realized the woody stem was not the same plant.  It was something old and dead.  Under and between the vines, <i>Voluxia</i>’s dark, ribbed, mangrove-like roots shot to the ground, encircling the dead trunk.  They left bare dirt in their wake.  For several yards around the plant, the grass yellowed.  <i>Voluxia</i> behaved like a strangling vine, stealing nutrients and killing whatever had been underneath it.

I noticed the fresh runners next.  Skinny lengths of prickly stem creeping through the grass in all directions.  Was I allowed to prune those?  Yes.  The vine body was studded with thousands of cut tendrils.  This plant was aggressively invasive.

I squinted at the damage.  These were not clean cuts.  Nor had they been torn.  I was unsure what would create such bubbly, distorted stubs.  Then again, who could guess how this bizarre organism healed its wounds.

In the nearest shed, I rifled through drawers, cabinets, and bins until I found a decent set of cloth gloves and clippers.  The gloves were a size too large, but close enough.  I could search through the other sheds for a better fit later.  There was work to do, and I was excited to do it.

Returning to <i>Voluxia</i>, I trimmed each runner at the base.  Their tiny thorns were sharp enough to pierce my gloves.  The prickles stung my fingers as I coiled a tendril.  Dropping it, I went back to the shed to fetch a second pair of leather gloves.

That was enough to protect me from the small spines.  The bigger ones toward the base still got through.  I handled those lengths carefully.

Most of the runners ended within the dead grass circle, but some traveled astonishing lengths.  I found one seeking entry into the vegetable garden.  Another had climbed over the hedge.  Pulling that one out of the spikey leaves was a trip.  One had even made it all the way to the cottage.  It twined through a decorative hedge before draping itself on the windowsill.

As I finished rolling that one up, I glanced inside.  That was my window.  I remembered I wanted to check the sprinklers there.

Tossing the vine coil aside, I got down on my hands and knees to find the sprinkler heads.  There were none.  The hedges were watered via drip irrigation.  I guessed my app was wrong.  It must have rained a little bit last night.

Gathering up the vine coils, I brought them to the composting bins behind the vegetable garden.  When I lifted the lid, I was surprised to see a mound of fresh runners.  They had barely wilted.  I had assumed what I had trimmed was several weeks’ worth of growth.  Viktor must have started pruning them yesterday and gotten distracted by the sick palm.

I shook my head.  I tossed my coils in.  The bin’s lid fell shut with a heavy thunk.

I finished my day with busy work.  That evening, I harvested my dinner from the vegetable garden.  Enjoying a salad as fresh as anything Grandpa and I had ever grown, I skimmed through book after book.  Nothing mentioned <i>Voluxia</i>.

I closed the last one with a sigh.  My face hurt from frowning and furrowing my brow.  How could there be no record of something so valuable to the order?

It hit me.  This species, this genus, must have been discovered by the order.  Why they kept it a secret was beyond me, but surely there would be records about it in one of the offices.

I stood up too fast and sat right back down.  It was late.  I had worked hard.  I was tired.  My curiosity could wait another day.  I breathed deeply with my eyes closed as I waited for the dizziness to pass.

A muffled commotion caught my attention.  Something outside had shattered.  I dragged myself to my feet to look.  The windows were pitch black.  I remembered seeing a flashlight in Viktor’s office, so I fetched it.  Once outside, I flicked on the light and swept the cottage‘s perimeter.

Nothing out of order.  No signs that some extraordinarily determined miscreant had made it over the hedges.  For a moment, I basked in the insects chirping.  The pond frog’s bellowing and tweeing.

Whatever had happened, I would find it in the morning.  I turned in for the night.

---

After breakfast, I treated Viktor’s palm again and sent him another picture.  The mold had died back significantly, and I thought there was more pep in the plant’s leaves.  The locked drawers attached to the desk called to me.  No, there was work to do.  I could hunt for records on <i>Voluxia</i> that night.

I spent most of the day in greenhouses.  Technically, I had half a degree in engineering.  Improving the greenhouses’ design appealed to me.  It was not the kind of contribution Grandpa would have made, but I had something else planned for that.

Grandpa always grew more produce than he could eat himself.  Even after I moved in, it was still too much.  He left milk crates of vegetables and lemons on cinder blocks by the mailbox.  Even the grumpiest neighbors snuck by to take some.  Anything remaining was donated to the local food bank.  

That was how he built community.  I could do the same in the back garden.  I decided to plant vegetables that would be ready to harvest before September.  That way, I could donate them before I left England.

I just had to get my hands on fish bones to make Grandpa’s fertilizer.  Technically, there was that pond full of koi.  But, no.  I would never kill them for that.  Maybe Viktor could bring some fish for me?  Once his family was settled and he was ready to return anyway.

My supplies list grew longer after I finished inspecting the greenhouses.  They were outdated and rusty.  Not worth salvaging.  I could build a new one, move plants into it, and demolish an old one.  Then repeat the process until every greenhouse was replaced.  A summer of that cycle sounded peaceful.

Before heading to the back garden, I stopped by the pond again.  Kneeling, I dangled my hand over the water.  The koi swarmed around it, bobbing up and down to nibble my fingers.  I was still 90% sure that I would not <i>borrow</i> one of the fish from the overpopulated lake.

When they finally realized there was no food and moved on, I scanned the water.  The frogs were shy today.  Few had been around when I approached.  None in the shallows now.  None on the near bank either.  There was only a dead fish on the far bank.

I blinked.   Too bad for the fish, but today was my lucky day.

I trotted over to the body, but slowed when I realized its state.  It was a shriveled mummy.  I poked its sunken ribs to roll it over.  Its eye was missing, leaving a dark hole.  It was like it had been stabbed through.

How long had it been like this?  Its pristine, shiny scales would have clouded and flaked off if it were old.  And I had not seen it yesterday.  Unless it had been under the water.  But then the other koi would have eaten it.  Could the sun have done this?

Gingerly, I picked up the koi mummy.  I was never one to look a gift… fish in the mouth.  It meant I could start Grandpa’s contribution today.  After dropping it off in the fridge, I went to the back garden.

My mind filled with vegetables.  Arugula.  Cucumbers.  Basil.  Scallions.  Visions to actualize in the soil.

Stumbling to a halt, reality shattered my dream.  Everything in the garden was dead.  Except the trees.  They were still dying.  Dropping bleached leaves into ghostly piles.

I stood slack-jawed.  My hand fumbled for my phone.  I started typing.  Stopped.

Viktor only let me stay here because I said I could handle it.  If he decided I was wrong… Asking for his help was the last resort.  I could figure out what happened on my own.  I put the phone away.

Nothing could devastate a garden so quickly.  Regardless, I checked for the usual offenders.  No weevils, caterpillars, or worms.  No mold.  The shriveled white leaves were crisp but intact.  Without fungus.  No black spot.  No buried colony of parasitic mushrooms devoured the crops’ roots.

I stumbled onto a tomato’s remains.  It had shriveled into a hard, blueberry-sized ball.  The moisture had been sucked out of everything.  Even the soil around the drip irrigation piping was dry.  It dusted between my fingertips.

And then I saw it.  A vine tendril had risen from the ground outside the garden.  Climbed over the log barrier.  Slunk back into the topsoil.

I missed it yesterday because it had been underground.  Scrambling to where it emerged, I clawed the dirt aside.  A thorn cut me.  I yelped.  Sucking on the wound, I retreated to get the two sets of gloves and clippers.

When I returned, I stared into the hole I had dug.  The runner had branched off a thick tuberous mass.  <i>A rhizome</i>.  I should have guessed something would grow off those mangrove-y root-stems.

How could something this aggressive be rare?  Or delicate?  I glanced at <i>Voluxia</i>’s distant main body.  It would take all day to dig from the rhizome back to its source.  I clipped the runner.  Carefully pulling it out of the soil, I followed its destructive path through the garden.

It ended at a tree, diving straight down.  I tugged harder.  It would not come up.  Fetching a trowel from the shed, I dug.  I revealed a thorny crown wrapped around the tree’s roots.  The vine’s needles all pointed inward, piercing the wood.  Pinpricks of dried sap cemented them in place.  The best I could do was clip off the free length.

I left it there and stalked over to <i>Voluxia</i>.  My gaze fixed on its roots.  Its lower vines.  Those runners that dared to decimate the entire back garden with vampiric fervor.  A dozen tendrils draped around the plant’s base.  There was no way I missed that many yesterday.  This was new growth.

One by one, the clippers bit them off.

That job done, I glared at the greedy plant.  Its gluttonous flower.

I tilted my head.  The bulb now listed slightly to the right.  Its purple veins bulged.  Fatted on plant milk and tree sap.  Barely able to hold up its weight.  Its yellow flytrap teeth had curled back.  Maybe it was close to opening.

Shaking my head, I stepped back.  I never imagined meeting a plant I could grow to hate.  I refused to let this one get to me.

I hunted the runners.  The ones above ground were short.  The buried ones breached the property.  One ended on the cottage’s near side.  Next to it, another one dove out of the ground.  A second rhizome.

Clip.  Pull.  Follow.

The runner ended at the pond.  The forked end gently rolling in the water was not what stopped me.  Something on the bank was tangled in the vine.  Or rather, the vine had spearfished something.  A frog.  Pierced through the belly.  It had shriveled into a rubbery skeleton.

The phone came out.

<i>Viktor, what in the hell is this thing?  It killed everything in the back garden.  It ate a fish and a frog.  Why are you keeping it!?</i>

My thumb hovered over send.  This admission would end my tenure here.  I sneered at the snarled vine.  No, there was good I wanted to do here.  I just had to tame <i>that thing</i>.

TShe rest of my day was spent digging up the two rhizomes.  I left about ten feet of each alone.  I marked their ends with the yellow lawn flags I discovered in the second shed.  Tomorrow, I would find the rest.

At sunset, I sat in front of <i>Voluxia</i>.  Staring at the brand new tendrils hanging from its base.  They were all 6 inches long.  They had grown from the freshly trimmed ends.  The bubbly gnarled stubs had no new growth though.  What had been done to them to stop it?

Finally, I made the connection.  There was a torch lighter on a bench in the second shed.

I fetched the lighter.  I burned off the tendrils.  The charred stubs writhed under the flame.  I looked at the lawn flags.  I cauterized the rhizomes.

Exhausted, I put away my gloves and clippers and stumbled back to the cottage.  My blurry vision caught something.  It refocused on a dark hump in the grass by my window.  No.  Not another runner.  Not another rhizome.  Not there.

I lumbered over to it.  Stared at the evil thing.  Traced the runner’s path with my gaze until I saw a glass fragment.  I stepped back.  The mulch was full of glass.  I looked at the window.  One of the panes was gone.  The second was cracked.  The runner’s needles gripped the crack’s edges.

“You cannot be serious.” 

I got the clippers.  Snipped the runner.  Stabbed them into the rhizome.  Left them embedded.  Tomorrow, I would exterminate the tumorous mass.  I ate canned mushroom soup that night.

All I wanted was sleep.  But I was afraid of the bedroom.  Sure, the runner was gone.  Yes, I had duct-taped the crack in the glass pane.  I even went back out to burn the runner’s stub.

That would not prevent a new runner from growing.  Nor guarantee the glass would hold.  I fell asleep in the office space.  Shoved into a corner.  As far from <i>Voluxia</i> as I could manage.

---

My sleep was fitful.  I tossed and turned.  Nightmares of needles and constricting vines.  Pricking, stabbing, piercing, digging, burrowing, devouring.

Thirst brought me to consciousness at midnight.  Drenched in sweat, I tried to get my feet.  I felt so weak.  So cold.  As I bundled myself tightly in the blanket, pain prickled along my left arm.  An electric chill crept through me.

Shaking, I unwrapped the cloth from my body.  Whimpered, “No.”

A runner.  Its needle thorns dug into my veins like an IV drip.  I was still asleep.  I had to be.  Trembling fingers grasped the runner’s tip.  Its thorns flexed.  I ripped it out of my flesh and dashed to my feet.  Toppled over.  Grabbed a chair for support.

“Oh my god!”  I choked down the bile.

Blood running along my arm.  Struggling into the bathroom.  Band-Aids in the medicine cabinet.  A joke.  Nowhere near what I needed.  I slapped half a dozen on anyway.  God, I was <i>so thirsty</i>.  I put my head under the faucet and drank and drank and drank.

Dizziness took me down.  I lay on the ground panting.  No.  Get up.  No time for this.  Where was the runner?  I forced myself to my feet.  Shuffled back to where I had slept.

The runner was still there.  Buried in my blanket.  The tip’s imperceptible movements were belied by an occasional fabric ruffle.

Good.  For a plant, it moved like lightning, but that was nothing compared to me.  Even crawling, I could stay ahead of it.  As long as I avoided the spines.  Their snaring grip.

I followed its length into Viktor’s office.  It had eaten through the palm.  It had snuck through a crack in the foundation to come inside.

It had hunted me.

This was why the order’s heads had rejected grounds master applications for years.  This place was unsafe!  Though, if they considered its current state “manageable” enough for my Grandpa, then what was it like when it was too dangerous to let someone take on the burden?!

That settled it.  <i>Voluxia</i> had to go.  No matter how rare or valuable it was.  It.  Had.  To.  <i>Die</i>.

I snagged cooking spray from the kitchen.  On my way out, I stomped on the runner in the blankets.  I wanted it to let out a shrill, agonizing scream.  It quietly devolved into a crunchy mush of thorns and goop.  No matter.  The flower would go out with a bang.

Next stop: the shed.  I grabbed the lighter and stormed to the yard’s far corner.  Lighter out.  Cooking spray at the ready.  Entering the dead grass circle, I slowed to a stop.

The vines around the main body seethed and jerked.  A wriggling nest of spiny snakes.  My faith in the homemade flamethrower waned.  I would have to get so close to use it.  Wait until daylight.   Clearly, <i>Voluxia</i> was a nocturnal plant.  It rested during the day.  I could safely—

The vines froze.  The flower bud tilted in my direction.  Its sepals spiraled open, revealing four white petals that reflected the moonlight.  Its bulbous neon-violet style glowed faintly.  Eight spotted anthers swirled to their final positions like stalked snail eyes.  The flytrap teeth on each sepal swayed back and forth.  A rhythm that breathed out the intoxicating perfume filling the air.

I remained still.  It had sensed my presence, but perhaps it did not know where I stood.  I realized how quiet it was.  No frogs.  The insects were distant.  Only the grass shivered in the breeze.

A cricket made the mistake of testing the silence.  One chirp.  The style twitched towards it.  Rustling.  Silence resumed.

Fighting to control my breathing, I glanced back.  Retreat slowly or run?  The main body moved fast.  But it was rooted.  The mangrove stems.  The long rhizomes.  There was no way it could heave all that tissue from the earth to chase me.  But I was so close to those vines.  Running would make so much noise.

One careful step back.  The flower lolled in my direction.  Another step back.  A third.  I collapsed with a cry as something ripped into my calf.  The lighter and spray can flew from my hands.  

Needles bit my clothes.  Tugged me forward.  I was too heavy.  The can rolled to <i>Voluxia</i>.  The lighter was within reach.  Snatched it.  Clicked it to life.  Sicced the flame on the vine that had me.  Too late.  Another found my ankle.   And another.

Prick after prick as vines coiled around my legs, my waist, my chest.  Dragging me closer.  Within the flower’s reach.  Within reach of the can.  I rolled forward.  Grabbed it.  Started spraying.  Aligned the flame to it.

The hush of streaming fire.  Dragon’s breath shooting through the darkness.  The vines around my body gripped harder as the plant recoiled from the blaze.

It was no use.

The mangrove roots caught fire.  I sprayed more of them.  The vines around me loosened.  I held position until the can emptied.  Until the roaring blaze got so hot that it burned my hands.  Forced me to retreat despite the remnant needles tearing my flesh.

I lay in the dead grass picking out thorns.  My eyes never left <i>Voluxia</i>’s funeral pyre.

I spent one more day on the grounds.  Digging up every piece of rhizome and burning it.  Viktor texted me, asking how things were going.  He wanted to know if he could spend another week with his family.  I told him the situation was under control.

On my way out, I made sure the gates were fully locked.  God only knew what other horrors sweated in the greenhouses, hid between the micro plants, or swam in the pond.  The brown vine tangle under the hedge was still there.  Only now, a single green leaf grew from it.  I panicked.  Ran to it.  Kneeled.  

Sighed.  Not <i>Voluxia</i>.  No thorns.  That cheerful leaf was fuzzy and patched with yellow.  Just some weed looking to escape.  I understood how it felt.  I wished it luck.

I made it safely back to the States.  A week later, Grandpa’s lemon tree was forming pods that would grow into fruits.  Counting them was a distraction from Mom’s not-so-subtle hints that now would be a good time to go back to school and finish my degree.  I was on number nine when breaking glass sounded from my pocket.  A special text tone for Viktor.

<i>Are you still alive?</i>

I had been reading and ignoring his messages.  But it seemed unfair to burden his conscience with my fictional death.

<i>Are you asking if Voluxia ate me?  No.</i>

<i>What happened.</i>

<i>I took care of the problem for you.  Burned every cell of that thing.  You’re welcome.</i>

<i>WHY WOULD YOU DO THAT?</i>

<i>Because it tried to eat me.</i>

<i>Didn’t Ed tell you what would happen if you killed it?</i>

<i>No.</i>

The last message I ever got from Viktor was a photo of the grounds from the brick path.  Patchy yellow vines had overtaken the hedges.  Crushed them under their unimaginable weight.  Tendrils draped over the wrought iron fencing.  Weaving around it.  Bending the bars.  The gate bulged apart as vines pulled on it from all directions.

The impossible size and strength of that one plant was beside the point.  Tiny white flowers bloomed across its surface.  Their resulting cottony seedball puffs were ready to blow across the countryside.
