A squat spider crawled out of the brush into the late afternoon sun illuminating the back patio.  It preferred these transitional spaces, where the natural world gave way to concrete and steel.  Its eight eyes processed the terrain.

The bushes lining the house were already crowded with webs.  The long, featureless stone slabs were a brutal desert.  The table and chairs in a corner by the house were interesting though.  Worth a closer look.

Its legs skittered with precision.  Across the emptiness.  Up a textured metal chair leg.  Over the plastic cushion’s weave.  From the chair back, the spider saw its new home.

The diagonal distance between where it stood and the screen door was perfect.  The web body would hover a foot over the bushes.  Gnats swarmed at that height across the patio.  Once they drifted this way, the spider would have food for weeks.  No time to lose.

The spider dabbed a new silk thread on the chair and rappelled down to the concrete.  It rushed to the door.  Scaled the screen.  Found the right place to plant the first connector.  Chewing through excess silk, it shorted the thread into a taut beam.  Then watched it.  Would it hold?

The silk listed in the breeze but held firm.

Satisfied, the spider lay another dab of silk and ran across the starting beam.  It took three passes to make a sturdy bridge.  On the final, testing tug, the silk resisted just enough.

Traversing the bridge again, the spider began a new, long thread.  It dangled in an arc below the bridge.  Once attached to the screen, the new thread changed the web’s shape into a wide smile.

The spider scurried back to the middle.  Descending from the bridge center, it reached the mouth’s bottom lip.  It knotted the strands and continued down anther inch.  It stayed there, swaying like a trapeze artist posing for the crowd.

In truth, it was struggling with a problem.  The web should be horizontal, not vertical.  Its many eyes swiveled about.  The house corner was too far.  Perhaps the bushes could be used, but that did not match the original vision.

One of the other chair backs might do.  The nearest one was farther than would be desired.  However, it was significantly better than the trapsing over the concrete to the mulch, over the bushes, and up the wall while trying to keep this thread intact.

The spider landed on the ground and zipped over to the other chair.  Once the anchor thread was in place, it surveyed the web’s triangular frame.  So far, so good.

The next stages were easy.  Three more threads to complete the circle marking the web’s true boundaries.  Next, two dozen axial threads radiating from the center.  Finally, it quickly circled over the axial threads inwards.  Guidelines to make sure the important threads were placed correctly.

Resting in a frame corner, the spider planned its next move carefully.  All the work thus far was meaningless if the web could not ensnare prey.  The sticky filaments had to be placed precisely.  The question was, would they be more accurate working inwards or outwards?

<i>Begin the spiral.
</i>
Instinct took over.  The spider scrambled to the web center and laid the first trap threads. Its pace was fast.  Its movements methodical.  A muscle memory inherited at birth.

As dusk fell, the final trap thread was placed.  Ready for the gnats come morning.  Or, if the spider was lucky, a moth overnight.  What a feast a moth would be.

Even weary, the spider’s movements were agile and sleek.  It danced to the web center to rest.  Technically, there was still the matter of constructing a hidey hole to attend to.  That could be done at the spider’s leisure later that night.  Now, amid dying sunbeams, was the time to inspect its golden, gleaming masterpiece.

One of the axial threads was slightly off.

The spider's gaze fixed on it.  One of its clawed legs reached out to tug the thread.  To pull it in line.  It returned to its aberrant position.  The spider tugged again, harder.  The thread had no remaining give.

Grooming its jaws anxiously, the spider rotated left, then right.  Everything else was so perfect.  How could this one strand have gone so wrong?  Was it truly necessary?

The spider snapped it.  Chased it down the web, chewing off segment after segment. The sticky threads that depended on it sagged and fell free.  They were devoured next.  New ones were placed.  The spider returned to the web center.

The web’s placement had shifted.  With the offending thread gone, the equal tension across the web had unbalanced.  It pulled away from the true center.  The spider snapped another thread to rebalance the strain.  The web kinked in another direction.  Another thread was broken, but the distortion worsened.

As it desperately worked to recenter its trap, the spider’s addled mind lost track of what it was doing.  The purpose for its destructive behavior.  A new instinct kicked in.

<i>Consume the old web.</i>

It could no longer stop itself.  Every silk line was cut, chewed, and swallowed.  There was no pattern or order.  Simply wanton annihilation.

The web collapsed in on itself.  A wavy tangle of silk hanging, spinning from the bridge thread. A stray breeze blew the sticky threads onto the spider’s back.  It needed to stop.  Consider.  Re-evaluate.  Disentangle itself.  Instead, it kept eating.  More threads wrapped around its body, its legs, its eyes.

When it was nothing but a white ball hanging from the last axial thread, the spider came to its senses.  Realized the danger it had put itself in.  Three of its legs twitched when it commanded all eight to move.  It awkwardly ascended the thread to the bridge.  If it could make it to a safe, solid surface, it could eat its casing away.

It held tight to the bridge.  The walk to the chair back was long.  Carefully, the spider pulled itself forward.  It did not think to look behind itself in the darkness.  It did not see the moth approaching.  It had no idea what happened when the insect smashed into the bridge thread.  Terrified, mad fluttering.  The moth bounced off and flew towards the lamp lighting the porch.

The spider could not move forward.  It had spun around the bridge thread during the collision, shooting silk in all directions to hold on.  It had mistakenly produced more sticky threads.  Its cocoon was complete.
