Tom.  An unremarkable name for an unremarkable man.  Heavy set and balding, the once married and once divorced bachelor was heading into his mid-forties.

Decades ago, ambition had taken him from his rural smalltown to the nearest city.  His limited education and credentials held him back.  Bound him to low skill jobs.  But he found his niche.  His thick frame and resting scowl made an otherwise shy, softspoken soul look intimidating.

From his 20s through his 30s, he had been a bouncer.  Pretending to be some tough guy had been fun.  Sure, the yelling hurt his throat.  But, there was a special pleasure in women thinking he was some strong, bad boy they could tame.  It earned him attention he never received back on the farm.  Those infatuations were beginning and end of his marriage.

He was too old for the club scene now though.  And good riddance.  The grinding, shrill, discordant music the kids listened to these days grated his nerves.  He transitioned into the next logical choice for someone with his experience and sensibilities: security guard.

Malls.  Amusement parks.  Some ritzy apartment complex.  He even worked the zoo once.  All those posts had too much noise and too many people.  So, when the night guard position opened up at the local museum, he for went it.

Applied in person.  Spoke with the manager, Kyle.  They hit it off.  It turned out they rooted for the same football and baseball teams and hated the same golf pros.  Easiest interview ever.

With a fresh uniform and a shiny new plastic badge, Tom was ready for his lowkey job.  One where he would spend more time examining the exhibits than protecting them.  One where he would walk dim hallways alone with his thoughts.

Well, technically, he was not entirely alone.

Sam, the museum’s resident restoration artist, was a night owl.  He claimed he did his best work from 10pm to 2am.  Whether that was true or not, he faithfully minded his station inside statue storage every night with classical music playing on low volume.  Of course it was classical.

Sam was the opposite of Tom.  He had the friendliest face in the world.  Under that, he was an intolerable bastard.  Earned his degree in something hard to pronounce from some pseudo-ivy league.  Acted like he belonged in the Smithsonian.  Talked about this job being a “stepping stone.”

If Sam thought that noise made an impression under Tom’s poker face, then he was an idiot.  Sam’s sorry state only reinforced Tom’s belief that a good education was not enough to achieve your dreams.  Not in the modern era anyway.  He was glad he never wasted his time attending college.

Anyway, they had been on rough terms since that time Tom accidently trapped himself in statue storage.  On the night in question, Sam had been out on his “lunch” break when Tom reached the room.  Tom’s rounds required him to do a sweep of every exhibit, hall, and closet.  He had hesitated at the door.  He <i>hated</i> statue storage.

Life-sized, people-shaped things gave him the heebie-jeebies.  He never pinpointed what bothered him, but it had started with clothing store mannequins.  The first time he really noticed them was in that short period before he married his ex-wife.  She took him shopping with her to give her an audience.  One day, he found himself staring at a fake.  At the faceless visage of a pale, plastic man in business causal.

His eyes fixed on the mannequin, daring it to move.  It stayed still, of course.  When his ex-wife snapped her fingers in his face to get his attention, he looked to her.  Pretended he liked the gaudy skirt on her waist.  Made a bawdy joke about how he liked her better without it.  She flipped her hair in disgust, but he knew she loved the attention.

As soon as she disappeared into the clothing racks to hunt up her next acquisition, Tom’s gaze went back to the mannequin.  It was in the same position as before.  Cold sweat beaded in his hands.

It would have been <i>less</i> scary if the damn thing moved.  That stillness felt so wrong.  If the place Tom worked now were a <i>wax</i> museum, he would have run out screaming.

Tom’s hand stiffly gripped statue storage’s doorknob.  Just a quick sweep.  He would stay on the side with Sam’s workstation.  There was no need to investigate each locker-sized slot in detail.  To ensure no one was hiding behind the statues.  There was no space for that anyway.

He unlocked the door and forced himself inside.

Hanging left, his uniform jacket shushed against Sam’s desk.  His flashlight passed over the right side, illuminating one slot after another.  Each contained a heavily rusted steel statue.  Straps held the figures in place so they would not fall over.  Or walk out.

Sam’s job was to derust them and restore any missing pieces.  Fill the holes.  Polish the surface.  Tom did not envy him that position.  Getting up close and personal with those things for hours would have—

Startling, he bumped into Sam’s current work.  A civil war statue venerating some southern captain or lieutenant.  In this case, Tom preferred the rusted side to the restored one.

Easing around the dead, metal soldier, Tom lit up the far corner.  Nothing amiss in the creepy locked room.  Big surprise.  Regardless, he sighed with relief as he turned towards the door.  Just as it closed him in.

“Ah, Hell no!”  He bolted to the exit.  Tried to open it.  The handle was stuck.  He jiggled it up and down, trying to loosen it.  No dice.  He pounded on the door.  “Sam?!  Sam!  You back yet!?”

No response.

Swearing under his breath, he glanced back at the statues.  “SAM!  Come on!” He went for the handle again, but it shot down on its own.

Sam opened the door.   Tom exhaled heavily.  “Sam, man, you don’t—”

“Are you illiterate?”

“N-no?”

Sam pointed aggressively to the sign on the door.  The one warning personnel to never be in statue storage with the door closed.  “What does this say?”

“I had the door open.  It swung closed on me.”

A disapproving sniff.  “Allow me to educate you.  This”—He bent down to pick up a metal triangle with rubber feet—"is a door stop.  It’s used like so.”  He placed it under the door and gave it a stubby kick to plant it tight.

“I thought it would stay open for the 30 seconds it takes to check the room.”

Sam knocked on the door.  “Hear that?  That’s metal.  This door is heavy.  It’s titled on its hinges so it’ll close and lock when no one’s minding it.  It’s designed that way.  Think about it like a bank vault.  I’m sure you’re familiar with <i>those</i>.”

“Ain’t worked a bank.”  Sam’s smug smile tipped Tom off to a darker implication.  “And I ain’t never stolen anything either.” He shook his head.  Sam was not worth his breath.  “I got a round to finish.”  He shoved his way through.

“It’s for your safety, you know.  Rust oxidizes.  That takes oxygen.  The stuff you breath?  If you’re in there too long you could suffocate.  I imagine neither of us want your corpse filthing that room.”

Tom gave Sam the finger and moved on with his night.

That had been three weeks ago.  They still exchanged glares every time they met.  The only time they spoke was when Kyle looked over their shoulders, forcing them to pretend to place nice.

Tonight, Sam was mercifully absent when Tom reached statue storage.  Opening the door, he slid the stopper in place.  He gave it a mocking kick in salute of Sam’s arrogance.  Once inside though, the grudge was forgotten.  This room was so much less terrifying when Sam was there.

The flashlight panned over the slots.  As usual, everything was in order.  Nodding, Tom turned to leave.  But when he reached the exit, something scratched across the floor.  Fleeting, quick taps.  Tom’s shoulders sunk with a full body groan.

“Don’t tell me we got rats…”  His flashlight beamed around the floor.  Tile and more tile.  He considered letting it go, but he took too much pride in his work for that.  “Hate this place…”  He ambled back into the room.

Dropping down to all fours, he searched under Sam’s desk.  Nada.  Nothing between the statues’ legs either.  The sound had come from the floor, right?  He glanced up.  The flashlight followed his gaze along the upper shelves.  Could rats even climb?  One more pass over the statues, in case the vermin was perched on their shoulders like a parrot.  Zilch.

As Tom let the flashlight beam fall, something caught his attention.  A glittering.  A gleaming.  He refocused the light on a metal face.  Another heavily rusted soldier.  “The Hell…?”  Its eyes sparkled.  

He shook his head.  No.  Just no.  It was late and his eyes were playing tricks on him.  He blinked hard to clear them.  When he looked at statue again, he still saw it.  That trembling sheen.  It transfixed him.  Anchored him.  He realized he had been wrong about the clothing shop mannequin.  It would have been ten times more terrifying if it had moved.

A click jarred Tom back to reality.  His head wrenched towards the closed door.  “But I put the—!  How!?”  He had put the doorstop in place.  He was positive.  His breathing tightened to a shallow pant.

The flashlight drifted back to the statue.  Slowly, he raised an accusing finger at the soldier.  “You…”  His hand returned to his side.  What was the point of scolding that rusted effigy?  Even the real flesh and blood it reflected would have ignored him.

Pulling the desk chair out, Tom sat down.  “Sam’ll be back.  He’ll get all his nonsense out.  And I’ll go home and have myself a beer.  Or three.”  He nodded, his eyebrows knitting together in solemn determination.  He glanced at the statue on the desk behind him.

A cherub boy releasing a dove.  Despite its content and meaning, the angel child was no less terrifying than the solider.  “Hm…?”  Tom shifted to look at the little statue straight on.  No rust.  Impressive.  A few days ago, it was solid orange.  Sam had moaned about how much work it would be to get this one clean.  Seemed like a lot of bellyaching for a job that took him a few days though.

Tom turned back to the soldier.  Leveled his light on it.  Shot to his feet, dropping the light.  “What in the—!?”  Snagging flashlight from the floor, he beamed it on the soldier again.  On its shiny metal features.  On its sleek pitted surface.  The rust was gone.  “No, no, no.”

In his rush to the door, Tom stepped in a pile of crumbling something and slipped.  Crashed.  Rising to his knees, his hands grappled for the door.  Yelping.  The handle was coated sharp, crunchy dust.

Pulling his hand away, he lit it up.  Brilliant burnt orange and caramel brown powder coated his palm.  Furiously, he wiped the rust onto his slacks.  Then he saw it.  The dust pile he had slipped on.  More rust.  Two rubber feet were buried in it.

“SAM!?”  He pounded on the door.  “FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, SAM, IF YOU’RE OUT THERE HELP ME!  THE DAMN STOPPER DIDN’T WORK!  SAM!!”

A hissing wheeze silenced Tom.  His own breath caught in his throat.  Something behind him inhaled and exhaled.  Calmly.  Deeply.  He turned the light on the sound.  The room’s back wall was gone.  

In its place, slithered a wet mass of rusty goo.  Umber colors swirled and bubbled chaotically over its surface.  Sluglike fragments left and rejoined it at the base.  The only unifying movement was the swell as it inhaled.  The settling as it exhaled.

Sam did not make it back to the room that night.  A personal emergency meant he went home early.  The next morning, he found Tom.  He called for an ambulance but told dispatch that there was no rush.  Tom’s body was clammy.

A month later, the door had three new warning signs on it.  Sam jabbed a finger at them in disgust.  “These aren’t helping!  What we need is better training for security!”

Kyle shrugged helplessly.  “I already told Pat to use the doorstop.”

“Apparently, you need to show him how!  This is the second time that idiot has trapped himself in there.  He keeps swearing he’s using it, but it’s nowhere to found when I get him out.  Honestly, I’m starting to think he’s throwing them in the trash to spite me.”

“And why would he do that?”

“Hell if I know!”  Sam leaned back against the door, shaking his head.  “I almost wish we had Tom back.  At least he was quiet.  Pat’s a damn chatterbox.”

“Look, I’ll talk to him.  Again.”

“Can’t you just fire him?  It’s for his own good.  And mine.  I’ve met my quota for handling cadavers this year.”

Kyle put a hand on Sam’s shoulder.  “Please be patient.  For me?  I’m sure this will work out if we give him a little more time.”

Sam shrugged off Kyle’s hand.  “Fine.  Whatever.  He’ll be gone in a month anyway.  Just like all the others.”  He rolled his eyes.  “Security guards are all a bunch of flakes.”  A huff.  “I’m taking a coffee break.”

Sam stalked down the hall

Letting out a weary sigh, Kyle gave the door a disparaging look.  “You need to be patient too.  I know you’re hungry, but if this happens again, the police are going to be suspicious.  Trust me, it’s a losing game once they get a sniff of something funny.  You have to wait for the nights we plan for.” He patted the door.  “It won’t be much longer.”
