The sky-blue Toyota corolla hatchback’s open trunk was stuffed to the brim.  Two ten-gallon buckets containing nets, snorkeling gear, a diving flag, towels, and mesh bags.  “Check.” A heavy boiling pot.  A gallon of bleach.  A kit of metal dental picks.  “Check.”  A suitcase holding 9 days’ worth of clothes, two swimsuits, and rash shirts.  “Check.”  A case of bottled water.  A cooler with lunch meat, bread, and cheese.  A box of granola bars and a tin of cookies that was unlikely to survive the road trip.  “Check and Check.”

Gemma closed the trunk.  Or tried to.  It bounced back open.  Some extra oomph on the second attempt made it stick.  She patted her baby’s rump with a deep, right-sided smile.

Climbing into the driver’s seat, she popped the keys into the ignition.  Amid the engine’s hum, she clicked on her headlights and started her favorite YouTube playlist.  An eclectic mix of pop, rap, jazz, and Spanish ballads.

Reversing out of her spot, she drove to the edge of apartment complex’s parking lot.  She hesitated there.  Looking back at the brick building, she saw her unit’s window.  The one she afforded by all by herself on the salary from her first fulltime job.  She blew it a kiss.  “Catch you in a week.”

She gunned it with a laugh.  Her destination?  Florida’s Atlantic coast.

The uninitiated would have called Gemma a “shell collector.”  She referred to herself as a “treasure hunter.”  There was a big difference.

A shell collector went to Sanibel Island and walked the white beaches for an hour or so.  They picked up some scallops, sand dollars, and maybe a small lightning whelk – and the whelk was a stretch.  After that, they perused the shell museum.  They would marvel at the magnificent specimens they could never dream of finding.  That would be a satisfying vacation.

When Gemma did that trip, she picked up the tail end of a junonia.  She found it digging through an ignored sandbank higher up the beach.  Later, she walked through the water at Lover’s Key and Ft. Myers.  Boated out to otherwise inaccessible islands.  Even Marco Island turned out well despite everyone telling her she would find nothing there.

She left with a bucket of banded and true tulips, horse, fighting, and crown conchs, and a 9 inch lighting whelk.  And then there were the angel wings, spiny and leafy jewel boxes, apple, lace, and rose murexes, Florida and alphabet cones, egg cockles, too many venuses to count, and a rainbow of scallops and coquinas.

It took four serving trays to hold everything.  A fish-shaped bowl in her kitchen was dedicated to just the kitten paw shells she found on that trip.  One day, she would visit that area again.  When she was old and the hardcore trips were too difficult for her.  Now, in her youth, there were other places to scout.

In prior years, she had darted along Florida’s pan handle.  Snorkeled along and between the middle keys.  Hit the southern Georgia’s islands.  Tried out the gulf’s wild west on Texas’ Mustang Island.  She even used her broken Spanish when she explored Mexico’s islands.

This year would be lowkey though.  Her collection was maturing.  It included specimen grade examples of most native gulf shells and a lot of the Atlantic ones.  She was saving up for a trip to the Philippines to start fresh.  That would take a few years yet.  The entire focus of this vacation was finding a specific shell variant: a black olive.

Olive shells were her favorite.  Glossy with a wide dark to light color range.  The crowning 3-inch lettered olives.  The white variant netted olives.  The ubiquitous rice olives, barely visible among the sand.  She loved them all.  However, Florida was not supposed to have black olives.

A recent Reddit post claimed to have found one and provided a photo.  The shell in question was clearly not the Philippines black olive that Gemma had her eyes on for the future.  The small lettered olive in the picture was so dark that its patterning was almost invisible.

The thread devolved into arguing whether the specimen was photoshop magic.  Gemma had the same question herself, but she liked to dream.  She imagined the black variant in the Atlantic.  That she could find it.  And the original poster had been bold enough to claim a location: Little Talbot Island.

Gemma had never explored the Jacksonville area. Plus, there were a handful of beaches known for shark teeth there.  She could harvest them if the black olive hunt was a wild goose chase.  Even if the teeth somehow fell through, she would have a good time.

Being out there meant more than coming home with a trunk overflowing with mollusk bones.  Drifting through the waves under the sunshine.  Creeping through shaded mangroves.  Climbing over rock jetties.  Squishing through stinky bays full of sea grass and hermit crabs.  Communing with nature.  That was what the experience was about.

Even the trip to Florida was a part of that.  Gemma kept her windows rolled down so she could smell the land changing from forest to farm to coast.  Salt-splashed sea breeze cooled her as she detoured onto scenic route A1A.  It took her through Amelia Island, Big and Little Talbot island, and a half dozen nameless pull-offs for fishermen.  She would check out the pull-offs if her planned beaches were a bust.

By the time she reached the rental house in Jax Beaches, it was evening.  She lugged her tools inside.  Tossed her food into the fridge.  Made a sandwich.  Collapsed onto the couch.  Turned on the news.

The local channel caught her up on town gossip and recent murders.  Then, she flipped to the weather channel.  All she wanted was tomorrow’s forecast.  Instead, the anchors were busy twittering about tomorrow’s king tide and potential flooding.  It would be the strongest tide that year.

Gemma yawned through a mouthful of Colby-Jack and salami.  She already knew about king tide.  About the bounty that would be brought in by its peak and revealed by its trough.  It was why she had chosen this week to take her vacation.

That and because the waters would be cold enough to keep anyone not serious about diving out of the water.  A little friendly competition suited her fine.  Dodging around screaming, children and lethargic, creaky elders cramped her style.

Finally, the newscast shifted to the forecast.  Clear morning.  Spotty rain in the afternoon.  Perfect.  Low tide started at a comfortable 7:30am.  Ideally, it would have been more like 9:30, since the state park opened at 8:00, but what could she do?  Society rarely operated on a schedule that respected nature’s rhythms.

The tv flicked off.  Gemma stretched widely, the hoop bracelets around her wrists jangling.  She pulled them and her earrings off on her way to the bedroom.  After stowing them carefully in a decorative wood box, she clamped its lock.  Jewelry had no place in her life this week.  Her body would be adorned with swimming gear, sunscreen, and nothing else.  She set her alarm for 6:00am and turned in early.

When the alarm went off, Gemma was midway through breakfasting on the last cookies.  Excitement had made sleep difficult.  There would be no such problem tonight.  Four-to-six hours of walking, climbing, swimming, and digging was more than enough to knock her out for a full night.  If anyone was desperate to cure to insomnia, this was how.

She changed out of her favorite pajamas.  The ones whose pattern reminded her of the rainbow laser screensaver that mystified her as a kid.  For today’s outing, she chose her one-piece swimsuit.  The white one covered in pink, orange, and yellow hibiscus flowers.

After slathering on suntan lotion, she pulled on a silky, long-sleeved rash shirt.  Next, she snagged her oversized, green sunglasses.  Just in case.  The snorkeling equipment was already by the door with the mesh bag she would store her treasures in.

Ready to go, but still with time to kill, she skimmed through her shell books.  Mostly, the photo plates.  She wondered if they would help this trip.  It was so unlikely she would find anything new.

Reaching the olive photos, her smile kinked right.  She pulled up the reddit thread on her phone, her eyes darting between it and the book.  Willing the black olives into existence.  Populating a colony of them into a secret shallow off Little Talbot’s coast.

Her diving watch went off promptly at 7:20.  Time to make history.  She snagged two water bottles on her way to the car.  After a quick jaunt into town to get from 295 onto Heckscher and A1A, she was back in the beach grove.

Diving north, the sun rose over the ocean between the trees and houses.  A pelican troop flew over a bridge.  Windows down.  The wind tangling her hair.  She shivered in the morning chill.  This was the closest Florida ever came to winter.

And it was beautifully quiet.  Only the occasional seagull whine or rasping grackle broke the silence.  If heaven was anything but this, Gemma and god would have a little chat when she got there.

The corolla rolled up to Little Talbot’s guard station at 8:01.  After paying the entry fee, Gemma rumbled to the road’s end.  She had heard that the best spot for shells was somewhere along the island’s south end.  The plan was to start there and head straight out into the ocean.

Once the car was parked, Gemma kicked off her driving shoes and stepped into her sandals.  She dropped her gear and a water bottle into the ten-gallon bucket holding her towel and diving flag.  Heaving it up, she carried it to long boardwalk through the dunes.

Despite her excitement, she took her time crossing.  Few of the beaches she had visited had dunes.  The ones in Texas were brimming with long grass, cactus, and, if you were lucky, tiny deer.

These ones had weedy flowers.  Pampas grass tufts.  Scrubby bushes.  Occasional short trees and squat palms.  She had spotted signs on the road warning about gopher tortoises.  She hoped to meet one before the trip was over.

At the boardwalk’s end, a staircase led down from a 3-foot sand cliff to the beach.  Gemma hesitated there.  The steep drop reminded her of finding the junonia at Sanibel.  Today was not for digging though.  Today was for exploring unknown waters.

Placing the bucket by the stairs, she dropped her sandals into it and pulled her mask and fins out.  She pre-emptively downed half the water bottle.  The rest was for when she got back.  As she replaced the bottle, something half buried in the sand caught her eye.  A flashed smile.

She pulled a gorgeous, glossy, tan lettered olive from the sand.  This was a good sign.  It fell into the bucket.  Reveling in the moment, she breathed the salt air in deep.  Then she ran the long, flat stretch of beach to the sea.

A shocked laugh escaped her as she tumbled into the chilly water.  Even if it was infinitely warmer than the frozen lakes up north, she would have to be careful.  Staying out in chilly water to long would make the trip back difficult.  Maybe even dangerous.  It was about 8:30 by then.  She set her watch for two hours.

Once her swim was over, she planned to towel off and walk the beaches.  A good way to warm up and work up an appetite for lunch.  She had noticed an enticing chowder place on the way to Jax Beaches.  After lunch, the rest of the day would be spent picking barnacles and worm trails off her finds.  Bleaching away algae.  Oiling anything worthy of that extra shine.

Donning her mask and fins, Gemma glided through the shallows.  The water was clear under the morning sun.  Schools of tiny yellow and black zebra fish darted around her.  The endless sandy bottom worried her though.

Her imagined black olive colony needed food.  Worms, small crustaceans, other snails.  These would congregate around grass beds or coral reef.  An endless aquatic desert would be a death sentence for live shells.

She kicked her fins harder and wider, picking up speed in hopes of finding anything but more sand.  The water deepened to 15 feet.  Grew colder.  Gemma slowed down.  This was a very bad sign.

She scanned the deep to the left.  Nothing.  Ahead.  Nothing.  right.  It shallowed.  Interesting.  She continued that way.

A grin as a green patch caught her eye.  Sea grass.  There was more up ahead.  She stopped when a sandy lump caught her attention.  She abandoned her dive flag just long enough to scoop that mass off the bottom.

Back at the surface, she flailed at the Styrofoam buoy until it was safety corralled into her arm.  Then, she took a closer look at her prize.  A six-inch true tulip clutched a clam in the folds of its black foot.    Realizing it was out of the water, the snail released its prey and retracted into its shell.  Its chocolate brown operculum door closed on its admirer.

Technically, it was illegal to take live specimens from the state park even with her fresh and saltwater fishing license.  Only… how far did the boundaries of the state park extend into the ocean?

Gemma squinted back at the distant beach.  She was probably too close.  Oh well.  The specimen was more white than patchy brown anyway.  She had better.  Finding it was the exciting part.

As a large mollusk predator, the tulip’s presence spoke volumes about the ecosystem.  Leaving her diving flag again, Gemma placed the snail back on the sea floor over the dropped clam.  Best to let nature pick up where it had left off.

From here, the grass bed extended east into the Atlantic.  As Gemma continued along her current path south, the grass gave way to sandy bottom.  The water was shallower there.  A sandbar.  It would be a good place to plant the dive flag if she found a rock to tie it to.  She continued south.

Along the way, she fell in line with a school of foot-and-a-half long redfish.  Now that would be a good lunch.  A cup of Manhattan clam chowder with a plate of redfish and fries.  She reached out to touch a fish’s tail.  The whole school darted into deeper waters.

No rocks revealed themselves, but a wood beam stuck out of the sandbar.  Gemma tried to wrench it loose, but it held firm.  Nodding, she tied the dive flag to it with white nylon cord.  She noticed the sandbar was even shallower up ahead.

At its peak she bet she could sit on the bottom have her head above water.  When it was time to head back, this would be a good spot to rest her legs.  She expected the return trip to be low effort with the tide coming in.  But, if she hit any rip currents, she would need her full strength to escape them.

Enough planning.  There were snails to find.

With the mermaid’s grace, she pushed back into the depths, hovering over the grass.  Seeking lumps, trails, and color.  Below her, an angel shark scouted for prey.  She had never seen one in real life before.  For a moment, she was tempted to dive down and touch its brown fleshy fins.

She knew better.  If she wanted to pet the sharks, she could go to an aquarium.  Harassing a wild one was asking to get bitten.

She passed it by.  Soon after, she stumbled onto a second one burying itself in the sand.  Then a third.  Clearly, this was a productive habitat to host so many large fish.

Her own quarry proved more elusive.  There were banded tulips and augers galore, but no sign of the olives.  She even swam over a brilliant orange horse conch.  An immature specimen at four inches.  In a few decades, though, that snail would be the snail food chain’s apex predator.

The water shallowed again up ahead, patched with sand and sea grass.  A trail caught Gemma’s eye.  She dove for it.  Pulled out a dark one-inch olive.  Not her black olive, but it was alive.  She held it in her hands underwater, waiting for the animal to creep out.

White with brown lettering matching its shell, the foot carefully extended.  Its tentacles and eyes popped into the open.  Finally, its oversized siphon tube emerged, positioned above and between its eyes, like a sea unicorn.  She tapped the siphon and the animal crumpled in on itself.  Placing it back in the sand, she scanned for more trails.  Instead, she saw a row of siphons.

Dive after dive, she gently unburied each animal just enough to see its color.  Tan.  Mottled grey brown.  Cream and mocha.  The same color palettes on repeat.

Finally, she stumbled onto a darker one.  It was small, and the little ones tended to be darker, but it was darkest shade she had seen thus far.  She pulled it entirely out of the sand and brought it to the surface for a closer look.

The shell was nowhere near as dark as the reddit photo, but the animal stood out.  Its muscled body was a dark grey, unlike its creamy-fleshed neighbors.  This specimen was a hint that she was on the right track, but it was not worth taking.  In this case, the shell was more remarkable with its animal left alive.  She checked her watch and grimaced.  Thirty minutes left.

If only she had a saltwater tank.  If only there was a way to transport such a wonderful creature home without killing it.  After a deep breath, Gemma returned the olive to the sand.  Her search continued.

The ocean floor rose and fell as she swam further.  Like a butterfly sampling flowers, she visited each high point.  Her fingers sifted through loose sand for snails.  She found two more grey bodied animals, but neither was as dark as the first.  Drifting over another trough she almost missed the struggle below.

A bronzey true tulip wrestled with another small mollusk.  What a beautiful color.  From the surface, it also looked huge.  But water refraction plays tricks on one’s eyes.  There was only one way to know for sure how big it was.

Gemma dove for it.  Pulled it up with both hands.  The shell was large and beautiful, yes, but also deeply flawed.  A large distortion, a healed crack, marred in the shell’s bell.  A scar.  That damage spoke to a vicious attack.  If the shell were empty, she would have taken it in a heartbeat.  As it was, the snail was a survivor.  It had earned the right to live out its days.

Naturally, the snail was unaware of Gemma’s decision.  It retracted into its shell as fast as it could, dropping its prey.  A shiny black flash began sinking into the ocean.  Gemma threw the tulip aside as she shot into the water after the escapee.  It took two swipes to snatch it into her greedy hands.  An instant to resurface.

Her breathing tube popped out of her mouth as she gasped.  A trembling whisper, “Yes!  Yes!”  The olive shell was glossy jet black.  Its animal was charcoal grey with black lettering.  The only other color anywhere on it was a hint of purple under the shell’s lip.

It made sense.  Of course, it lived in the trough.  The shell was too dark for the shallows.  It would be an easy target there.  The deeper water hid it better.  How many more were there?

Her eyes darted wildly as she looked below her.  Her attention refocused on the specimen in hand.  Two inches.  Impressive, but if she could get a full-sized one—

Her watch beeped.

“Oh, come on, not now!”  A moment of mad rationalizations.  Ten more minutes would be fine.  Even fifteen!  Afterall, she was a strong swimmer.  It was not that cold.

The voice of practicality spoke up in a tone far too much like her mother’s.  You have a whole week here.  Don’t act stupid now.  Sighing, Gemma dropped the olive into her mesh bag.  She would be back tomorrow to find it some friends.

For now, it was time to swim back to the dive flag, take a little break, and then return to… Where was the dive flag?  She looked left and right of where she expected it to be.  Nothing.  The shoreline was out of view too, but she knew where it had to be.  She thought so anyway.

She looked the rest of the way around her.  Oh.  The flag was over there?  She tilted her head in confusion.  The buoy was far closer than she thought it should have been.  Something was wrong.  

Staying as still as she could while bobbing in the waves, Gemma tracked the flag’s path.  It drifted away.  A current had it.  It must have come untied from the beam.  Shore was not that way.

Taking a breath to center herself, Gemma swam steadily in the direction she remembered.  As soon as she found a disturbed olive bed, her rising pulse eased.  Those disruptions were proof that she was retracing her path.  Still, she kept up her pace.

Losing the diving flag made her vulnerable.  If a boat happened to motor by, the sailors would have no idea that they should be watching for her.  An image of the scars on manatee’s backs from such collisions made her cringe.  And they had blubber to protect themselves.  If she got into a fight with an engine, there would be nothing left of her.

A redfish school darted past, scaring her.  The areas she once considered shallows were now uncomfortably deep.  Bigger animals could navigate these depths.  It was unsafe to be this far out alone.  

More redfish blitzed in and out of her peripheral vision.  An angel shark glided behind them.  A good sign.  The angels had been near the sandbar.

Gemma pushed herself harder.  Swam faster.  Told herself it was determination driving her.  Not fear.  The water lightened ahead.  An incline.  But where was the sandbar?  Then she saw the beam.  The sandbar was underneath her.  She had underestimated how quickly the tide was coming in.

Coiling white caught her eye.  Her nylon cord was still tied to the beam.  Confused she moved closer.  Caught the frayed end.  It looked like it had been roughly cut by something jagged.  What could have done that?

She swam to the sandbar‘s highest point.  When she stood, the water lapped just below her breasts between waves.  Pulling off her mask she scanned the horizon.  She could see shore now, which was comforting.  It was a long swim though.  When she had started, it had not seemed so long.

The first hundred feet would be deep.  After that she would be back in her comfort zone.  To finish the first stretch quickly, she had to commit to breaking now.  Accepting that the water would be those extra inches deeper when she finally took them on.  Then again, a few more inches made little difference at this point.

Closing her eyes, Gemma concentrated on her breathing.  Reminding herself of her prowess as a swimmer.  As a diver.  She had braved deeper water in groups.  This would be the same.  Her eyes opened to glance at her mesh bag.  It would all be worth it once she was on dry land.

A brown shadow sailed by.  An angel shark.  It cruised toward a disturbance on another section of the sandbar.  A pile of redfish huddled close together, nervously breaking the water’s surface with their fins.  The bottom individuals fought for higher positions, creating a writhing ball.  Another angel swept in under them, scaring the fish into a tighter mass.

Gemma shook her head.  Angels were not above occasional scavenging, but they were ambush predators.  Its why they were so flat.  A lone individual would burry itself, wait for unsuspecting prey to swim by, and SMACK.  Dinner time.

Seeing three of them circling fish far too large for them to catch was bizarre.  And a fourth was joining the pack.  Soon there were six, corralling the fish like sheep dogs gathering the flock.

Suddenly, all six sharks sank to the sandbar’s bottom.  A moment of reprieve for the fish ball.  A moment for the component bodies to drift slightly apart.  A ten-foot bull shark torpedoed through the school like a battering ram, snapping them in half.

Redfish bolted to either side.  One clump smacked into Gemma, throwing her balance off as she screamed about the bull.  Her arms cartwheeled wildly as she struggled to stay up right.  Stumbling back, she managed it.  Looked up.

The angels rolled over each other.  Over a redfish tail hunk.  Two victoriously swallowed that meal.  The other four poked at the sand, seeking scraps.  One by one, they drifted into deeper water.

“They…”  Panting.  Gemma glanced around.  She had no idea where the bull had disappeared to.  She had not seen its exit path.  No telltale fin broke the surface.  It could be anywhere.  Bulls were aggressive.  Territorial.  Had a reputation for attacking swimmers.  And this one was hungry.  Hunting. “This isn’t good.  This is NOT good.”

Something rough brushed into Gemma’s leg.  She gave a blood curdling scream.  The angel darted back into the depths.  Panicking was the worst thing she could do right now.  Thrashing in the water was sure to attract the bull.  She clenched her fists and forced her frantic breathing to slow.  She was dizzy from panting so hard so fast.

The angel swept by again.  And again.  It circled Gemma.

She hissed, “I.  Am not.  A fish.”

As if to contradict her, another angel entered the circle.

“I’m not a fish!  Do you see these!”  She splayed her hands over the water.  “Fingers!  Fish do not have fingers!”  A third angel joined.

Gemma took a deep breath.  Put her mask back on.  Carefully flowed into floating position.  The circle around her widened into an oval.  As she carefully kicked forward, the last three angels sped in to fill gaps.

At first, it seemed like the shark halo would drift with her.  However, the angels stopped advancing when she reached the sandbar’s edge.  Almost running into one, she startled back.  She tried to dive under them, but they went down with her.  Their sharp skin abraded her arms.

They had her trapped.  Intentionally.  She had known sharks were intelligent, but not like this.

Standing again, Gemma looked for the bull.  No fin.  No terrified redfish.  No massive, stout body ominously stalking the depths.  The angels broke into two tight circles around her, leaving no space to resume swimming position.

A weapon.  She checked her gear.  The mask.  The breathing tube.  The mesh bag.  None made for a good club.  She brandished the plastic breathing tube.  At least it would put some distance between her hands and the angels.  She raised it over her head.  Watched the circle go around one last time.  Bashed an angel over the head with all her might.

All six sharks frenzied.  Teeth gnashing wildly.  Ramming into Gemma.  Into one another.  Her breathing tube bounced off one shark after another.  A bite landed on her arm, breaking the skin.  Another on her opposite leg.  She curled into herself, hugging her damaged limbs.  The angels swept away from her and off the sandbar.  Stringy swirls of red dotted the water around her.

Gemma’s injuries were minor, but the bull would smell the blood.  Gritting her teeth, she grounded herself against the pain.  Steeled her will to move forward.

An angel resumed widely circling around her.  Another joined it.  They stayed out of reach.

Her will faltered.  She checked her watch.  Hours until high tide.  The next low would come in the early evening.  The sharks would be more active then.  Assuming they did not come at her during the day.  Assuming she could manage the cold for that long.

There was no option.  She had to swim now.  With the angels accompanying her like vultures.  With the hungry bull lurking unseen.
