Starting over had not been my choice.

Without an advisor to oversee my work—or rather, to fund it while I did everything else—my PhD thesis ended.  No more culturing rat neurons.  No more filling them with glowing proteins.  No more videos of cells growing processes.  Of their desperate desire to connect.

In truth, more often than not, my films were funereal.  The cast: overstimulated neurons from sick cultures.  They shriveled into apoptotic beads under the microscope laser’s light and heat.  In death, they formed a fireworks display of neon red, green, and yellow.  Beautiful in hindsight.  Crushing on shooting day, when every movie I had recorded since 5am was trash.

I was on my third aborted project when it ended.  Three.  Was it really that many?  During my rotation, I had followed an older student and learned his topic.  Run some of his experiments.  Picked up the lab’s techniques.

Meanwhile, I dug through the literature, searching for my thesis.  I asked for guidance, and my advisor told me to read more.  I took that to mean I could research anything in our field.  That was so freeing.  Hypothesizing—imagining—the possibilities that could answer our world’s yet-unknowns.  Formalizing it in a written proposal brought my ideas a step closer to reality.

My proposal was shot down without hesitation.

Apparently, understanding the proteins related to traumatic brain injuries was a “crowded space.”  It was the wrong direction to go.  Sticking to the lab’s existing expertise was <i>safer</i>.  I suggested other problems I had read about.  Every idea was disregarded.

Instead, I was told to resume a project my predecessor never managed to get working.  That was what she wanted all along.  Guess what?  I proved it would never work.  It took two years to demonstrate it.

Next, I was forcefully assigned to yet another project a student had struggled with and abandoned.  Guess what?  After a year, it was still going poorly.  

I suppose saying I had no choice but to start over is a lie.  When the lab closed, I could have fought for my neurons.  Someone would have let me keep going.  Taken me in.  Funded me.  I never would have graduated, but it would have looked good on their tenure application.  Instead, I kept my mouth shut.

What I’m getting at is this: the opportunity to start over in my 5th year was surprisingly welcome.

In the new lab, my day-to-day centered on coding and data-mining.  It was steady.  It was fast.  At the risk of jinxing it, I would even dare say it was fun.  Birdsong was far cry from neuroscience, but if it landed my PhD quickly, who cared?

Plus, if I decided to return to studying brains, I had a solid excuse for why my thesis was in the wrong discipline.  Truly though, I think I had already settled on never going back.  The scientist I was supposed to be—had planned on becoming my whole life—had expired with the neuron fireworks.  That dream was over.

At least it was over for <i>me</i>.


It was lunch time.  I sat at a table by the science building’s café.  I forget what I was eating.  All that matters is someone sat across from me.  As an introvert, I make my space cold.  Unapproachable.  Surely, whoever had joined me was someone who knew me well enough to look past that.  Before I could glance up, the words began.

“I’ve been looking everywhere for you!  How have you been?”  That unmistakable high-pitched voice that began and ended with a rumble.  One that carried a permanent, unstable hazy note.  A tone that had once sentenced me:  <i>You’ll never make it in this world</i>.

My mouth hanging open as I gawked at my old advisor.  She still wore that incongruous wig.  Its short, straight, red-tinged hair nothing like her natural, dark, frizzy curls.  A symbol of unnoticing.  The effigy we all pretended was not there.

Just like we pretended that her mother was not hiding in her office to care for her.  For her sickness.  That her skin was not tinged Simpson’s yellow with jaundice.  That the deep bruising under her eyes was just a trick of the light.

To an outsider, she looked heavyset.  We knew how much had sloughed off her though.  She was a fraction of her original size.  As the excess mirth vanished, I wondered if she made jokes about it.  That she needed to lose a few pounds away.  How she looked better now.

I had no words for her question.  She never cared about the answer anyway.  For her, “how are you” was social grease.  If you responded with anything but generic, vague pleasantries, the conversation ignored it.  Or she would admonish you.  <i>Stop being so negative</i>.

She barreled through the silence, “It’s been a while, but I’m getting everything up and running again.  I got my grants back.  I found the equipment other labs had… borrowed.  I got the whole misunderstanding straightened out.  I’m still working on getting back my DGS title though.  It’s hard when the interim DGS doesn’t want to give it up.”

Did she know she left devastation in her wake?  People quit because of her.  Because of what <i>happened</i> with her.  It freaked them out that the university allowed something so egregious.  We had begged the department chair to help us—to help <i>her</i>.  In turn, she retaliated against us.

That conversation is burned into me.  Being closed into that office alone.  Feeling the weight of her deteriorating health.  Of her ever more frequent disappearances.  We knew something was wrong.  The entire department knew.  We feigned ignorance because that was what she wanted.  But we all knew.  Her excuse?  <i>I’m just busy with my administrative duties</i>.

“But that will get settled eventually.  At least they can’t touch my tenure.”

I remembered that too.  For the first time in weeks, she had shown up in person.  Just in time for lab meeting.  With ice cream.  She told us that we had a lot to celebrate.  One lab mate had earned a first author publication.  Three months prior.  Another had her first child.  Five months prior.  Events we had already celebrated.

But we ate anyway.  Spoons scraped bowls, entering mouths that only opened long enough insert food.  What else could we do?

Finally, she dropped the bomb.  The real reason why we were there.  <i>I hate to toot my own horn, but I got full professorship.
</i>
Delayed.  Slow.  Clapping.

The lab closed down a week later.

“Two new students are rotating in the lab right now.  They look promising.  It’ll be difficult for them without older students though.  I still remember how to do everything, of course, but I won’t have time to teach them.  They need experienced students to get them started.  I’ve already talked with the rest of the old lab.  It looks like they’ll be coming back.  I want you to come back too.  Afterall, it would be such a shame for you not to finish your project!”

<i>Such a shame.</i>  Her preferred phrase to layer guilt.  A veneer over her real motivations.  Her dedication to the system.  Students did work, so she could write grants, so she could fund herself, and so the university could take its cut.  She had to keep the conveyer belt—that meat grinder—running.

No.  I swallowed hard.  No!  Just say it!  My voice failed me.  My silence was too well practiced.

“Think about it.  Really consider it.  It’s not like reading about birds is going to get you a post-doc.  Let’s talk again later.  Maybe in a week.  It’s been great to see you!”

She stood up and left.  It took her ten minutes to hobble to the elevator with her cane.

How could they let her back in?  How could they let her coerce more students into her lab.  What inbred, cutthroat, academic circle jerk had she serviced to earn ultimate immunity?!

Because it was <i>ultimate</i> immunity.  She had died seven months ago.  Cancer.  It had eaten her alive for three years.  We learned what got her from the obituary.
