Mr. Bradford lived a small, solitary life.  Extravagancy never spoke to him.  And his definition for “extravagant” was wider than most.

For example, he could afford a mortgage on a reasonable home with a small yard.  However, he would never make such a purchase.  What business did a single man have in owning so much property?  It was a waste.  No.  His modest unit was quite sufficient.

Afterall, a home’s purpose was to house one’s things and provide a safe place to sleep.  His 500 square foot studio apartment did just that.  It held his mattress, a desk with a TV, and a small kitchen.  The lack of closets made storage a bit difficult, but he had cardboard banker’s boxes for that.  He constructed a dresser out of them and thought himself quite clever for it.

The only items without a place were his baseball, bat, and glove.  One day, he would pick up the game again.  Until then, his equipment would sit in the far corner.  A reminder of his glory days from middle school.

There was one luxury he allowed himself.  His little dog, Sicilia.  Though, Mr. Bradford contended that she was not a luxury.  A luxury dog came with a pedigree.  Or was bought from a breeder.  Or at least came from pet store, never mind the puppy mill that initially spawned it.  Sicilia’s origins were far humbler.

He had pulled her out of a filthy paper bag laying in a dumpster.

In his vainer moments, Mr. Bradford claimed his four-pound companion was a chihuahua x Jack Russell Terrier mix.  Truthfully, she was an ambiguous mutt with a triangular head and bug eyes.  A bit of an ugly dog, but loyal and well trained.  She knew the basic tricks: sit and lay down.  She nervously clung to Mr. Bradford in the hours he was home.  When he left or returned, she would be at the window, her entire body shaking as her tail wagged.

Mr. Bradford worked inconsistent shifts as a cashier at the local gas station convenience store.  Were he ever late coming home, Sicilia knew what to do.  Her business ended up on the boot tray by the door covered in newspapers.  Always without spilling any urine on the floor.

The only complaint Mr. Bradford had about Sicilia was her complex relationship with the Pomeranian next door.  When the dogs met outside, they were respectful enough.  However, if the Pom so much as yipped during the night, Sicilia would run to the apartment’s wall and yap back.  It was a vicious cycle.  The two argued their case with passion and intensity.  A pair of philosophers debating the meaning of dog existence on this earth.

Usually, the Pom was silenced before midnight by a smack from its owner.  If not, Mr. Bradford would heft up Sicilia, clamp his hand over her muzzle, and hold it until the Pom gave up.  Sicilia was too dignified to resume the discussion after the Pom went quiet.

All and all, Mr. Bradford’s life was simple.  Predictable.  Without vice.

Other than his hopeless addiction to the cocaine.  A habit he picked up in high school.  In his freshman year, he had changed districts.  He failed the new school’s baseball team tryouts.  They were higher caliber than his middle school team.

Without sports to keep him busy, Mr. Bradford turned to other ventures.  He fell into a circle of losers and wannabes made cool by their access cigarettes and booze.  Their one claim to local fame.  The group was more discrete about the fact that their central member was a coke dealer.

Highs and trips, good and bad, were things of the past.  Mr. Bradford’s continued drug use represented a regimented medical campaign.  His measured doses were only enough to keep the withdrawal at bay.  He used at set times, so the chemicals would not affect his employment.  While not always successful in this endeavor, most days he was functional at work.

Perhaps a rehabilitation clinic would have been more appropriate for treating his illness at this point.  However, Mr. Bradford would never consider such a thing.  Too many acquaintances had left clean only to be seduced back to the drug.  They cycled in and out of the system aimlessly.  A couple had overdosed immediately after release.

True, half a dozen had stayed sober.  But they had more at stake.  A partner.  Children.  Family.  Religion.  These were the things that kept people straight.  Mr. Bradford had none of these.  The odds were not in his favor.  He chose to maintain his status quo.

One evening, he stumbled home late from his job.  A well-meaning customer had missed the “no smoking” warning sign.  Caught himself on fire lighting a cigarette at the pump.  Mr. Bradford used the fire extinguisher on him and called for an ambulance.

Waiting for help to arrive took time.  Explaining the situation to the police took more time.  The longest part was showing them that, yes, every pump had shiny, new warning stickers.  A mandate after the last time this happened.

On the way to his door, Mr. Bradford visited the community mailbox.  One packet of junk for him.  Two envelopes for Ms. Pendleton, the Pom’s owner.  Coupons and ads printed on newspaper sheets.

He crammed the corners of Mrs. Pendleton’s mail into her slot.  The junk mail went into the trash.  As for the fast-food coupons, some were for pizza.  His favorite.  He kept them.

An excited yapping greeted him as he passed his door’s window.  Sicilia’s jubilations set off the Pom.  By the time Mr. Bradford was inside, the dogs were deep in their existential debate.  He picked up the boot tray, poured the urine and feces out by the door, and dropped it back in place.  He would replace the newspaper after he finished clipping coupons.

Throwing the ads onto his mattress, he wandered into the kitchen.  Opened the fridge.  Peered inside.  

Cooking had never been one of his interests, so he kept his reserves minimal.  The fridge door was stocked with condiments in single-use packets.  Beside them, stood three open jars of whole dill pickles.  His second favorite food.  The shelves and drawers were empty except for an unassuming pizza box.

Unsure how much was left, he opened it, hoping for two slices.  Only one.  A small one.  At least there was something.  And it had pepperoni.  He took the whole box out and dropped it on the counter.  Opening a cabinet, he retrieved a paper plate.  Transferred the pizza onto it.  Turned to the microwave.

“What the hell?”  Mr. Bradford’s face screwed together in consternation.  He probed the heating instrument.  This was not his faithful microwave.  It was new.  Fancy.  Sleek.  <i>Out of place.</i>

He scanned the kitchen and found a folded over sheet of paper.  Gingerly, he opened the notice.  The complex’s header, an overly formal, dry greeting, blah, blah, blah.  The meat of the event was buried in excess prose.  Something about discovering electrical problems related to his old microwave.  Mr. Bradford eyed the new device warily.  He glanced down at his plate.  Cold pizza was for breakfast, not dinner.

He popped it into the microwave.  Muttering to himself, he examined each of the flat buttons, seeking the one that let him set the cook time.  In desperation, he pressed 1.  The microwave jolted to life, its digital display reading 1-0-0 in blocky, green letters.  Not ideal, but he could work out the light box’s exact machinations later.

Opening the silverware drawer, he reached behind the empty utensil tray to get his pill organizer.  Each slot held his daily allotment of cocaine.  He enjoyed setting it up each Saturday.  Measuring out his maintenance doses with his electronic balance, metal sampling scoop, and weighing paper.  When he was in a particularly good mood, he donned his goggles from high school chemistry.  It made him feel like a scientist, he second dream job after pro baseball player.

Mr. Bradford poured Friday’s powder into a line on top of the pizza box.  Meanwhile, the dogs’ barking rose in pitch and frequency.  They must had hit a particularly contentious detail.  Their exchange degenerated into insult and fury.  “SICI!  SHUT THE HELL UP!”

Both dogs silenced.  Taking a stray plastic straw from the counter, Mr. Bradford inhaled his medicine.  With a sigh of relief, he popped close the pill organizer and stowed it in the utensil drawer.  His guilty eyes glanced at Sicilia.  She sat on his mattress, tail wagging anxiously.  He mumbled, “Sorry, Sici...  You’re a good girl.”

The microwave beeped and Sicilia danced into the kitchen to stand behind Mr. Bradford.  As he retrieved his pizza, her eyes implored him to share.  His hand hung on the microwave door.  “There’s nothing for you today.  Eat your kibble.”  Her tiny nails sadly clicked across the tile.  “There’ll be more tomorrow…”  Quiet crumbling from the dog bowl.

He slammed the door closed.  The display read F-O-O-D.  Mr. Bradford’s mouth kinked to the side with an unimpressed frown.  “Yeah, I know.  I got it.”  He showed the pizza to the microwave.  It remained unchanged.

Scoffing, he grabbed the empty pizza box and tossed it onto the pile with its siblings from earlier that week.  After settling into his mattress, he flicked on the tv.  He navigated to his recorded shows.  The 8am cartoons.  An embarrassing pleasure of his that he was less likely to talk about than his cocaine use.

As Tom and Jerry dashed around the screen, he savored his pizza.  The buzz of even normalcy washing over him.  Smoothing the edges of withdrawal that always bit into him when he came home late from work.  A welcome relief.

Sicilia curled up next to him.  He gave her one of the pepperonis.  Soon after, he fell asleep.  He awoke once at 3am to pull Sicilia away from the wall and hold her muzzle until the Pom went quiet.



Midmorning the next day, Mr. Bradford rolled out of bed onto the floor.  A frantic skittering of paws told him that his descent had nearly crushed his companion.  “Sorry, Sici.”  He pushed himself up on his elbows.  “You wanna go out?”  Sicilia danced in place.  When Mr. Bradford rose to his feet, she ran to the door.

Without thinking, Mr. Bradford detoured to the refrigerator.  He gazed at the pizza-less chasm.  Grabbing the nearest jar of pickles, he fished one out.  As he munched on that briny delight, his eyes wandered to the microwave.  F-O-O-D.  He huffed.  Opened and closed the microwave.  F-O-O-D.  

He glared at the folded over note on the counter.  “Thanks for throwing away my perfectly good microwave to give me this whiny piece of trash.”  A plaintive whine from the door.  “I’m coming, Sici.”

Sicilia’s leash hung on a plastic command hook above the baseball bat.  Mr. Bradford hooked it to her collar and opened the door.  The bright sun rushed in, making Mr. Bradford blink furiously.  He crossed a stretch of sidewalk to the grass.

Ms. Pendleton was out with her Pom, smoking a cigarette and staring at the clouds.  Sicilia charged for the Pom.  Mr. Bradford offered no resistance.  The two dogs sniffed each other’s faces and behinds, tangling their leashes together as they circled.

Shoving his hands into his pockets, Mr. Bradford opened with, “H-hey, Julia.”

Without looking away from the sky, “Hey, Benny.”

Mr. Bradford’s first name was not Benjamin.  “I, uh, got some of your mail yesterday.  I tried to stick it under your mailbox’s door.”

“Thanks, I guess.”  She took a long drag on her cigarette.  “I haven’t checked the mail this week.  I guess I should do that.”  Looking down at the leash knot, Ms. Pendleton sighed.  She unwrapped the Pom and yanked it away from Sicilia.  “Come on, Dog.”  While dragging the unwilling Pom towards the mailboxes, she distantly waved goodbye.  “Later, Benny”

“Later…” Mr. Bradford looked down at his little dog.  Sicilia trembled in time with her wagging tail.  He imagined that if his life were a romantic comedy, he would announce, “One day I’m going to marry that girl!”  Instead, he said, “We should get one of those veggie pizzas today.  It’s been a while since we had any olives.  You think we can get olives and pepperoni?”

Sicilia panted at him with a wide dog smile.  “Olive” was a word she knew.

After Sicilia had done her business, Mr. Bradford led her back to the single-story row of apartments.  Ms. Pendleton had not returned yet.  He detoured to her door and checked it.  He sighed.  She had left it unlocked.  Again.  At this point, he wondered whether she was truly just forgetful or if she had lost the key all together.  It made him worry.

The complex had a few rows of units, organized by type.  The studio row was the cheapest option.  Individuals that lived there tended to be transient or on hard times.  Mr. Bradford and Ms. Pendleton were the only residents who had lived on the row for longer than a year.  He mistrusted their neighbors.

As much as he wanted to broach the subject of locking the door with Ms. Pendleton, he was aware that admitting to checking her door would be unnerving.  Especially coming from a single man to a single woman.  He kept hoping to catch her on her way out at the right time to say, “I think you forgot to lock your door.”  Her schedule was unpredictable though.  That meeting would only happen by luck.

There was nothing he could do now, so he returned to his unit.  The rest of his morning was spent clipping coupons while watching cartoons.  When he was done, he threw away the old paper on the boot tray and replaced it with the ad scraps.  There was one more task to complete before ordering lunch: resetting the now empty pill organizer.

Mr. Bradford’s main cocaine stockpile was stashed under his bed.  He pulled out the Ziplock bag and his yellow-tinged safety goggles.  Donning the goggles, he examined his powder.  Little remained.  Once in the kitchen, he dropped it on the balance.  The numbers confirmed what he already knew.  Certainly enough for this week.  Not enough for next.

Grimacing, he placed a sheet of weighing paper on the balance.  Zeroed it.  Scooped the right amount of drug onto it.  Poured it into the pill organizer.  He worked slowly, his predicament heavy on his mind.  Mr. Bradford’s drug dealer was in jail.  No one had picked up his territory yet.  When the bag emptied, there might be nowhere safe to get more.

Pouring in the last day’s ration, he stared at the pill organizer.  The idea of using every other day or cutting his maintenance dose in half crossed his mind.  He lacked the willpower for that.  It hurt too much.  His drug-starved brain would go crazy.  Racing thoughts and paranoia in conflict with his sluggish lethargy.  He had to find a new dealer this week.

The pill dispenser returned to its home in the utensil drawer.  The dregs of the main stash slid under the bed.  Mr. Bradford dug his phone out of his blanket and ordered three pizzas.  Veggie supreme.  Pepperoni and sausage.  Some monstrosity with everything on it.  Enough to make it until Wednesday.

Laying on his bed, Mr. Bradford stared at the ceiling.  His tv babbled on at low volume.  The program had moved on to some kid’s gameshow.  It was about as worth watching as everything else this time of day.  As he considered replaying his recorded cartoons, something rolled along the floor, chased by the clicking nails.

He leaned over the mattress to grab the baseball.  “You wanna play?”  Sicilia vibrated with excitement.  He gave the ball a puny toss, and she went bounding after it.  The ball was far too large for her mouth.  Growling, she mauled it into submission before dragging and kicking it back to the bed.  He threw it again.  As he watched Sicilia run, a flashing caught his attention.  He looked to the kitchen.

The microwave blinked F-O-O-D in limey yellow.

“What is with this microwave!?”  Mr. Bradford pulled himself to his feet, stormed into the kitchen, opened the microwave, and shut it.  It continued to blink.  He opened and closed it again.  Still blinking.  “There is no food.  You’re empty!”  He pressed 1, and the microwave’s chamber lit up.  The display dutifully counted down.  He glowered at it.  When it beeped and read D-O-N-E, he opened and closed it.  The message changed back to F-O-O-D.  At least it stopped blinking.

Abrupt knocking called Mr. Bradford to the door.  The pizza boy—er girl.  A sight for sore eyes either way.  He tipped her as best as he could.  By the look in her eyes, it was not enough.  “Sorry.  My next paycheck isn’t until Friday.”  She gave him a mildly understanding look and left to continue her deliveries.

The boxes were warm.  Mr. Bradford would not have to use the godforsaken microwave.  He took out a piece of the everything and one of the veggie supreme.  The rest went into the fridge.  On his way back to the mattress, he eyed his tower of pizza boxes.  It was time to do something about them.  A chore for tomorrow.

The rest of the evening was uneventful.  Mr. Bradford got his serving of Italian fruits and vegetables for the day.  Sicilia got two olives.  He took his medicine.  She resumed decrying the Pom’s philosophy.  Ms. Pendleton ended the fun around 10pm.  Mr. Bradford got a full night’s sleep.




Sunday morning was a repeat of Saturday.  Walking Sicilia.  Chatting with Ms. Pendleton.  Watching cartoons.  The microwave beamed F-O-O-D furiously.  Mr. Bradford stuck his tongue out at it as he ate cold pizza for breakfast.  He contemplated using the oven to heat up lunch.  Afterall, pizza was born in the oven.  Surely it could go back in.  That was the decision he was struggling with when he remembered the pile of empty pizza boxes.

With a groan, he gathered the greasy cardboard and headed for the door.  Sicilia weaved between his legs and dashed ahead of him.  Her nose pointed at the doorknob.  “Sici, no.  I’m taking out the trash.  I don’t have a hand for your leash.”

She gave a yipped whine as her tail went into overdrive.

“GO LAY DOWN.”  Sicilia’s tail tucked between her legs.  She skittered to the other side of the apartment.  Curling up on the mattress, she gave the biggest, buggy doe eyes a dog could manage.  “Good girl.  I’ll take you later.”

Mr. Bradford stumbled out the door and lugged his too many boxes to the trash compactor on the other side of the complex.  One-by-one, he deposited them into the overly full bin.  He was of the opinion that everyone else living at the complex must had been a little intellectually challenged.  None of them seemed to realize that the compacter only ran when the door was closed.

He roughly latched it shut and waited for the grinding and crushing to complete.  He opened the door again and peered inside.  The bottom of the compactor was covered with the overflow that had been missed.  He closed the door again and left, sure that this time it would clear itself.

The rest of the day continued as normal.  He took Sicilia out for a walk like he promised.  They watched the cartoons he had recorded two weeks ago.  He heated his dinner pizza in the oven.  Sicilia got two more olives.  When it was time to medicate, Mr. Bradford opened his utensil drawer and found nothing.

Stunned, he shoved his hand to the very back of the drawer but still did not feel his pill organizer.  He pulled the utensil tray completely out.  The drawer was empty.  A nervous giggle escaped him.  He scanned the counter.  Checked the cabinets.  Left each one open as he abandoned the search through it.

Breathing through his mouth, he left the kitchen.  Finding the pill organizer would be easier after he took the edge off.  He reached under his mattress.  Found his goggles and nothing else.  Shoving his whole head into that cramped space, he franticly searched.  Dust bunnies and a plastic bone he had given to Sicilia that was too big for her.

Struggling back out from under the mattress, Mr. Bradford panted raggedly.  His wild eyes rolling in their sockets as they darted around the apartment.  His gaze landed on Sicilia.  No.  The dog would be out of her mind if she ate the bag.

Unless she swallowed it whole.

His voice trembled as he called, “Here, Sici.  Here girl.  There’s a good dog.”  Sicilia backed away.  Her animal instincts warning her that something was off about her beloved master.  “I said COME!”  Sicilia dashed for an open bankers box, leapt inside, and cowered.

“BAD DOG!”  Mr. Bradford shot to his feet, rage coursing through his veins.  He took two steps then stopped.  His head turned towards the kitchen.  The microwave was open.  Blinking F-O-O-D in mustard yellow.  He had not opened it.

“You.” He stumbled towards the appliance, an accusing finger directed at it.  “YOU.  It was you, wasn’t it!?”  A primal yowl escaped him.  He charged.  Grabbed the utensil tray.  Threw it at the microwave.  “FOOD?  HUNGRY?!  YOU’RE HUNGRY!?”  He yanked open the fridge, opened the top pizza box, grabbed a piece.  “THEN EAT!”  He threw the pizza into the microwave.  It thunked into the back and fell onto the glass turntable.

He heaved piece after piece until half the pizza was gone.  Slammed the fridge shut.  Slammed the microwave shut.  “THERE!  YOU’RE FULL NOW!  ROT IN HELL!”  His fingers dug through his tousled hair in time with his shrieking whine.  He fell to his knees, sobbing.  “Where is it!?  Where is it-where-is-it!?”

Mr. Bradford lay on the tile drowning in self-pity.  Sicilia stayed in her box.  Even when the Pom jeered for attention, Sicilia remained quiet.  Around midnight, he finally picked himself off the floor.  The craving was already itching into him.  “Si-Sicilia?”  He wandered over to the bankers box.  She looked up at him, her bug eyes bugling impossibly.  A dark, damp pool soaked into the cardboard under her.

He patted her head.  “I’m sorry I yelled at you.  You’re a good dog.”  Fetching the leash from the door, he hooked her up and led her outside to do the rest of her business.

When he brought her inside, he lifted her into the sink and rinsed her off.  Dabbing her dry with a dish towel got most of the water off her, but not enough.  As soon as he placed her on the ground, she shook with a tremor that started at her nose and ended at her tail.

To prove his desire for forgiveness, Mr. Bradford opened the fridge and plucked an olive off the veggie supreme.  When he held it out for Sicilia to take, she gingerly licked it from his fingers.  Her tail wagged though.  They would be fast friends again by morning.  Except he would be miserable and angry by morning.  He already felt a headache coming on.  Also, he was hungry.

He turned to the microwave to take out a piece of pizza.  He stopped.  D-O-N-E.  In green.  But he had not heated anything.  Tentatively, he pushed the button to open the door.  The pizza was gone.  In its place was his pill organizer and the Ziplock bag.

The bag was full.

He snatched it.  Opened it.  Smelled it.  It could not be real.  He poured too much out onto the counter and snorted it.  Oh god, it was real!  And it was <i>good</i>.  He slid onto the floor giggling madly.

“You.” He waved an unsteady finger at the microwave.  “You were <i>hungry.</i>”  Stupid laughter.  “You and me?  We’re gonna be friends.  Buddies.  I get you now.  I got you.” His eyes teared up with relief.  “You won’t go hungry again.  Not again.”




Mr. Bradford settled on the name <i>Denise</i> for his new friend.  In his opinion, that name was mysterious, powerful, and full of sex appeal.  Appropriate for his new drug dealer.  Every day, after he heated his own dinner, he left a spare pizza slice in the microwave.  Every morning, he discovered a bag with a few more ounces of cocaine.  With this new arrangement, he was set for life.

There was an upfront cost in buying the extra pizza to feed the microwave, but it was nothing compared to the value of his growing drug stockpile.  The idea of a career switch drifted through his thoughts.  Drug dealer was a far more profitable position than convenience store cashier.  It was also simpler.  He would choose his own hours.  Be his own boss.

However, Mr. Bradford may have been overqualified for the job.  Being stopped by the police in the streets was a regular occurrence for him.  Each time, he emptied out his pockets and let them pat him down.

“I know.  I’ve got ‘the look,’” he told them.  The officer would give him one last suspicious appraisal, then let him go.  They never found anything on him.  Before the microwave, he bought product from his dealer’s house.  He drove directly there and home.

Still, once he was established, Mr. Bradford could deal from his apartment.  Except finding his customer base would put him at significant risk.  If he stumbled onto some buyers, he would reconsider the opportunity.  For now, he would maintain his current employment.  Even as weeks passed, there was plenty of room under his mattress for the excess drug.

On a Friday a month into the arrangement, Mr. Bradford came home weary.  As he walked in, Sicilia circled around his feet.  “Hey, Sici.”  Looking deeper into the apartment, he added, “Hey, Denise.”  He leashed Sicilia and took her for a quick walk.  When they came back inside, he heated his dinner.

No pizza tonight.  A phenomenal coupon deal convinced him to buy Arby’s the day before.  Half a dozen assorted sandwiches, an equal number of orange marshmallow milkshakes, and a dozen large fries.

Setting aside his roast beef sandwich and fries, he gave the microwave an equivalent meal.  He took a rock-hard milkshake from the freezer and retired to the mattress.  Cartoons played across the tv.  Every other fry, he offered one to Sicilia.  She would eat none of her kibble tonight.  That was acceptable.  Fries were a rare treat for the household.

Sicilia chattered with the Pom as Mr. Bradford took his medicine.  He yawned through a wide stretch as he turned off the tv.  He ambled across the room to the light switch.  Gazing at his kingdom, a warm smile played across his face.  “Night, Sici.  Night, Denise.”

The next morning, he stared into the microwave.  No fresh bag of white powder.  The sandwich and fries from the night before remained in place.

“Uh… you all right, Denise?”  He took out the fries and smelled them.  They seemed fine.  He ate one and it tasted exactly as he expected it to.  “Not feeling it today?”

He put the fries back in the fridge.  “Maybe you’ll like this better…”  Picking up a corned beef reuben, he exchanged it with the roast beef.  For good measure, he added one of the milkshakes.  After closing the microwave, he patted its side.

Unsure what else he could do, Mr. Bradford grabbed the leash and took Sicilia outside.  Ms. Pendleton was on the grass with the Pom, staring up the cloudless sky.  As the dogs greeted, he almost started the usual exchange of names.  Instead, he stopped beside Ms. Pendelton and looked up.  Endless blue.  “What do you see up there?”

Blinking, Ms. Pendleton returned to present reality.  “I don’t know.  Nothing, I guess.”

“Then why are you always looking?”

“Maybe I’m waiting for the day I <i>do</i> see something.”

Her statement sounded so deep.  Its dreamful meaning beyond reach.  Mr. Bradford wondered if she was high.

Ms. Pendleton regarded her cigarette.  “I should probably check the mail.”  She untangled the Pom from Sicilia and dragged it away.  “Later, Benny.”

“Later, Julia.”  And with that, Mr. Bradford and Ms. Pendleton returned to their usual, disconnected distance.  He swung around the row of units in the opposite direction, hoping to run across Ms. Pendleton again on his circuit past the mailboxes.  They did not meet.  Sicilia enjoyed the unexpected walk though.

When they returned to the apartment, Sicilia only waited until she was unhooked before dashing to the mattress to curl up for a nap.  Mr. Bradford smiled at his little companion.  “We’re home, Deni—”

The microwave was open.  Orange goo dripped out of it.  He hurried to the kitchen to experience the full horror of the scene.  Bread and meat and sauerkraut strewn about a pool of thick milkshake sludge.  He kneeled to pick up the plastic cup.  It had been cleanly sliced in half.  “These are limited-edition, you know!”  He dropped the cup into the trashcan under the sink.  The rest of the sandwich followed.  Shaking his head, he mopped up the floor with a dishtowel.

Above him, the microwave beamed F-O-O-D.

“No, Denise.  You were just sick.  Wait a bit until your… whatever you eat with settles.”  He wrung out the towel in the sink.

The microwave blinked F-O-O-D.

“I’ll order a pizza for your dinner.  Maybe just cheese.  I don’t want you to puke again.”

Sicilia snuck over to lick the floor.  Mr. Bradford considered yelling at her for it.  She would do a better job cleaning up what was left than he would though.  He patted her on the head.  “Just kibbles for you tonight, okay?  This is enough of a treat.”

Mattress.  TV.  Cartoons.  A nap.

In the mid-afternoon, he ordered the pizza.  There was enough loose cash in his wallet for the tip this time.  He brought the pizza into the house and set it on the counter.  “Okay, Denise, let’s try this again.  I know you like—"

Four new letters displayed on the microwave.  S-I-C-I.

“NO!  No, Denise.  Sici is NOT food.  We do NOT eat family.”  He pushed the 1 button.  The microwave counted down.  “I got this whole pizza just for you.  If you want something else, okay, but not her!”  Crossing his arms, he waited for the beeping and done message.

When it came, he opened the microwave and closed it.  It read S-I-C-I in pale yellow.  He shoved slices of pizza into the microwave.  Slammed it shut.  Turned away from it.  The door popped back open, spewing pizza onto the floor.  The letters on the digital display faded to angry red.

Mr. Bradford ran to the mattress, snatched up Sicilia, and bolted out the door.  Panting on the sidewalk, he raked his brain for anywhere they could go.  Anyone who could help.  The only person he came up with was his old drug dealer.  The one still in jail.

He sat cross-legged on the concrete, rocking back and forth.  Hugging Sicilia so hard that her eyes bulged more than usual.  “Denise is insane.  Not you.  Never you.  You’re a good girl, Sici.  You’re a very, very good girl.”

He sat out there, unable to formulate a plan, until sunset.  The craving creeped over him.  It was worse than usual.  With such a plentiful supply of drugs, he had increased his maintenance dose.  The pill organizer called for him.  He had to medicate.

Mr. Bradford opened the door to the apartment.  Reached in for the leash.  Hooked Sicilia and tied the leash’s handle to the outer doorknob.  “I’ll be right back, Sici, okay?  I’m not leaving you.”  He petted her nervously.  “I’m just going to get us some food.  Your water bowl.”

Carefully, he tread into the dark apartment.  The only visible object was the deep scarlet, blinking S-I-C-I.  He turned on the main light.  He realized then that his venture would be futile.  He checked anyway.  The pill organizer was gone.  The stash under his mattress had vanished.

He fell to his knees in front of the microwave.  “I will give you anything else.  But not her.  She’s family, Denise.  She’s <i>our</i> family!”  The microwave stopped blinking, but the letters were unchanged.  “Okay.  I got you.  We’ll work this out…”

Mr. Bradford rose to his feet.  Took Sicilia’s food dish and water bowl.  Placed them outside to a chorus of excited yips.  Sicilia messily slurped up the contents of her water bowl then jumped into his lap.  Settled in.  He petted her, his mind a million miles away.  Not her.  Never.

Suddenly, Sicilia scrambled off.  Tore to the end of her leash.  Yapped fervently at Ms. Pendleton’s door.  The Pom replied.

A wisp of an idea planted itself in Mr. Bradford’s consciousness.  For hours, he listened to the two dogs go back and forth.  He went inside long enough to get his phone to watch the time.  At 1:00 AM he was convinced.  Ms. Pendleton was out of the unit.

He tested the door.  It was unlocked.  He took a deep breath.  He opened it.

The Pom skittered back in surprise.  As soon as it saw Sicilia, it rushed out to greet her.  The two dogs exchanged licks and nose kisses.  Meanwhile, Mr. Bradford peered into the apartment.  That clean, stylish space glowed under the light of a violet lava lamp with green lava.  The Pom’s plush dog bed laid on the floor by a white couch.  He looked at Sicilia then back at the dog bed.  The Pom would not need it anymore.

He crept into the house.  Picked up the bed.  Saw the Pom’s leash shoved under the couch.  Took that too.  A tiny, spiky dog ball lay forlorn in the middle of the floor.  The perfect size for Sicilia.  He picked it up.  It had a squeaker.  Carefully, he depressed the ball.  Silence.  The Pom had killed the squeaker.  Perfect.  He pocketed it.

Back outside, he hooked the Pom to its leash.  “You’re going for a little playdate with your friend.  That’ll be fun, right, Dog?”

Mr. Bradford led the two dogs into his apartment.  Closed the door.  Set down the ball and dog bed.  He tied Sicilia’s leash to the door.  He untangled the Pom’s leash and led it deeper into the apartment.  Into the kitchen.

His mouth set into a stern line as he glared at the microwave.  “You’re a bad person, Denise.”  He picked up the Pom.  It struggled and squealed when he tried to shove it into the microwave.  Clawed feet flailed desperately.  It gave one full bodied yip before the door closed.

The muffled yapping continued.  Scratching at the microwave.  Mr. Bradford ran back to the door.  Untied Sicilia’s leash.  Exited.  He heard one last terrified yelp before the door closed.

He walked Sicilia to the gas station.  Stared at the pumps.  The dark convenience store that would open in—he checked his phone—four hours.  He looked down at Sicilia.  The night was cold, and the poor dog was shivering.  He picked her up.  “We’re done.  Never again.  When we get my stash back, we’ll move somewhere else, okay?  You’ll make a new friend.”  Scratching her ears, he repeated.  “Never again.”

It was 5:00 AM when they returned to the apartment.  Mr. Bradford hesitated at the door.  Maybe the microwave had rejected the Pom.  It would be on the floor, happy and healthy.  He could put it back in Ms. Pendleton’s unit.  A passing whim.  What he really wanted was his medicine.

The unit was quiet.  The microwave read D-O-N-E in green.  The offering had been accepted. 

Just in case it was trick, Mr. Bradford tied Sicilia’s leash to the door.  Went to the kitchen.  Opened the microwave.  His pill organizer.  His three-bag stash.  A new Tupperware container with a cheerful yellow lid.  He furrowed his brow.  Where had the Tupperware come from?  Before, he had assumed Denise used bags from his box of Ziplocks when she delivered his payment.  He did not own any Tupperware though.

He put the bags and pill organizer into a bankers box.  He returned for the Tupperware container.  Stared harder at it.  Opened it.  The drug inside was snowball white.  No creamy tinge.  No clumps.  Perfect smooth, powdery snow.  He licked his lips.  Glanced at Sicilia.  Looked down at feast before him.  He needed to medicate anyway.

For the first time since he graduated high school, he felt the euphoric high.




By lunchtime the next day, he was sober enough to recognize the distorted sounds from the other apartment as crying.  He took Sicilia for a short walk.  Came back inside.  Watched tv.  Ate dinner.  The microwave’s display was empty.  The Pom had sated it fully.  He took another hit at his usual time.

Rince, wash, repeat.

The morning he had to go back to work was nerve-racking though.  The microwave had developed a taste for dog.  Would Sicilia be safe alone in the apartment?  Mr. Bradford had no choice though.  Dogs were forbidden in the convenience store.  Otherwise, he would have brought her every day.  Sicilia would have loved the attention.

He convinced himself it would be okay.  If the microwave could scoop Sicilia into its secret maw without his help, it would have done so already.  He ignored the fact that Denise had no issues when it came to reclaiming his drugs unassisted.

The risk paid off.  That evening, he came home to a happy dog.  One as glad to see him as normal.  Energic and playful.  This was not a dog that had been chased by unspeakable horrors throughout the day.  All thoughts of moving out evaporated.  Sicilia was safe.

Mr. Bradford had a feeling the same could not be said of the strays that skulked around the complex’s outskirts.  The ones so easily lured to him with the pungent promise of canned tuna.  His preparations were proactive though.  The microwave’s display remained empty.  Given the amount of drug he had on hand, he was in no rush for it to demand its next meal.

The following weekend, he took Sicilia out for her morning walk.  Ms. Pendleton was on the grass alone, staring up.  Her cigarette smoke twirled in the breeze.  Sicilia charged for her.  Mr. Bradford held her back.  She yipped in protest.

“Hey, Benny.”

Politeness demanded he visit with her now.  “H-hey, Julia.”  Guiltily, he stepped up beside her.

“You’re not going to ask?”

“About what?”

As she raised her empty, leashless hands, her eyes remained on the heavens above.

“I heard you crying last weekend.  It’s been really quiet since then.”

“Some complete dick stole Dog.”  Her eyes closed as she looked down.  Her cigarette was not a cigarette.  She wreaked of marijuana.  “Who steals a dog?”  A wide, weak shrug.  “World’s a dark place, Benny.”

“Yeah.  Yeah, it is…”

Sicilia whined.  Ms. Pendleton reached down to pet her.

“Look, if you ever want to….”  He stopped himself.  He could never invite her into his unit.  He would never let her use the drugs bought with her dog’s blood.  “Never mind.  It’s a dumb idea.  I gotta go.  She’s out of kibble, and I wanna get it before I forget again.  Later.”

“Later, Benny.”

There was still half a bag of kibble in the apartment.  Mr. Bradford bought a new one anyway.  When he got home, another half bag sat in front of his door.  The Pom’s food.  He lugged it all inside.  Stowed the excess food in the lower cabinets.  Meanwhile, Sicilia trotted to her bed, circled in it, and laid down to chew on her spiky ball.

Exhausted, Mr. Bradford went to the fridge to get a jar of pickles.  There were four of them now.  The jar in his hand only had two left.  He would finish it.  As the door closed, a glowing green caught his attention.  K-E-N-T.

 Mr. Bradford’s first name was Kenneth.

He blinked.  Not comprehending.  Slowly, a bemused smile crossed his lips.  “Hey, stupid, I feed you.  You know what happens if you eat me?  You starve.  Stupid microwave.”

Having won that argument, he hopped onto the mattress.  He ate brined cucumbers without a care in the world.  Mulled over his plans for the day.  Playing with Sicillia.  Cartoons.  Pizza for dinner with his medication.

The gravity of the situation hit him.  He jumped off the mattresses, brine spilling everywhere.  Dove under the bed.  Swiped for his drugs.  They were gone.  He bumped his head on the way out, swearing.  “Come on, Denise!  This isn’t fair!  Why do you have to be such a psycho!?”

The microwave blinked K-E-N-T.

He stormed into the kitchen.  Dug through drawers for his pizza cutter wheel.  Held it over his wrist.  “You want a piece of me?  Yeah?  Huh?!” He pressed down.  The dull thing refused to cut into his skin.  “I’ll do it!”  He turned his wild eyes on the microwave.  Its display was blank.

His grip on the pizza cutter slackened.  It fell onto the counter.  The display lit up again.  K-E-N-T.  He picked up the pizza cutter.  The display emptied.  It knew.  <i>She</i> knew.  Mr. Bradford was her caretaker.  He must not be harmed.

What could she want then?  His eyes widened as he made the connection.  Denise had accepted the pom in place of Silicia.  So, in this case… The idea of obtaining the equivalent offering left an icy pit in his gut.

“No.”  Dizzy, he turned to the exit.  Stumbled there.  Picked up his baseball bat.  Tested its weight.  Did a practice swing.  Walked back to the kitchen.  He was lost in a feverish vision of Denise’s bashed internals being crushed by the trash compactor.  He just had to get her off the cabinets.  He lifted the bat over his shoulder, ready to swing.

<i>But where would he get his drugs?
</i>
The bat echoed hollowly as it bounced off the tile.  “I’m not doing this.  I-I’m not.  <i>No.</i>”

Grabbing a roll paper towels, he returned to the mattress to sop up the brine.  His best effort left him with a handful of sodden paper.  He brought that and the empty jar to the kitchen.  Paper towels: in the trash.  Jar: rinsed and left in the sink.  Baseball bat: returned to its home by the door.  He covered the damp spot on the mattress with a blanket.  No one would notice.

Standing over Sicilia, he stared down at the dog bed.  Her tail wagged nervously.  He looked back at Denise.  Her blinking cheered him on.  “I need this for a bit, Sici.”  He picked up the little dog and put her on the mattress.  She curled up on the blanket.  The dog bed and spikey ball were stowed under the sink behind the trashcan.

Mr. Bradford straightened and looked at Denise.  “I need two hits worth.  I can’t do this without them.”  The display shifted to D-O-N-E.  He opened her up.  A nearly empty Ziplock.  It had exactly what he needed and nothing more.  “Thanks…”

He deposited the bag under his bed.  Walked to the door.  Took the half dozen steps to Ms. Pendleton’s unit.  He prayed that she was out.  He knocked.  The door opened.

“Benny?”

“H-hey, Julia.  Uh.  About earlier…”  He anxiously rubbed the back of his neck.  “I’ll just say it: you wanna hang and get high with me?”

For a moment, her eyes were blank.  A crooked smile spread across her face.  “I thought you’d never ask.  What do you have?”

“Uh, snow.  Not a lot left, but enough.  I can get more from my dealer tomorrow.”

She licked her lips.  “Gimme a minute.”  She dashed back inside.  Shuffling sounds.  Drawers opening and closing.  She returned with a bag of dark green marijuana and rolling paper in one hand.  Her lava lamp was in the other.  The lava kept swirling even though the light was off.  She shook the bag.  “Let’s start with this.”

“Yeah.  Okay.” She led him to his door.  Opened it.  Sicilla yapped excitedly, greeting their guest.  He closed the door behind them.  Locked it.  When he turned to her, she had Sicilia cradled in her arms like a baby.  “Wow… your place is empty.”

“Yeah, I’m kinda… I don’t really need <i>things</i>.” His gaze was drawn to the kitchen.  Denise had gone silent.  The display was blank.

“That’s cool.  I get that.”  She put down Sicilia and plugged in her lava lamp.  Wandering past Mr. Bradford, she turned off the lights.  His world was cast in pale violet and green.  She flopped onto his bed, opened her bag, and rolled a joint.  As she lit it and inhaled, he sat next to her.  She passed it to him.

Taking a hit, he choked through fumes.  She laughed.  Before she could comment, he said, “Man, it’s been a while since I’ve done this.”  He remembered the old rhythm on his second try.  Memories of high school flooding his thoughts.

Taking the joint back from him, “So, show me what you got.”

Mr. Bradford nodded and reached under the mattress to get the cocaine.

“You want some too, Sici?”  She held the joint under Sicilia’s nose.

He took it from her.  “Hey, no.  That’s not good for her.”  He took another hit.

“Never hurt Dog any.”  She snatched his bag.  Holding it over her face by a corner, she frowned.  “You meant it.  You’re really almost out.”

“I’ll get more tomorrow.”

She squinted at it.  “Is it good?”

“Best I’ve ever had.”

As he spoke, she took a pinkyful and huffed it in.  They waited.  Her shoulders wriggled when she felt it kick in.  “Yeah, I can do more of that.  Give me something to pour it onto.”   He went to the kitchen to get a paper plate and two plastic straws.  He put them on the bed for Ms. Pendleton.  She picked up a straw giggling.  “Is this a fast-food straw you cut in half?”

“It gets the job done.”

“I’ll trust you on that.”

She poured out the contents of the bag, breaking it into two clean lines.  Taking her share.  Laying back.  Sicilia climbed onto her chest to lick her chin.  Ms. Pendleton giggled and shoved the dog away.  Mr. Bradford stared down at her.  On his bed.  Smiling up at him in a dreamy haze.  Beautiful and inviting.  How long he had he wanted this?

He held the plate out for her.  “Do you want the rest?”

“But that’s all you have.”

“I’ll get more tomorrow.”

A second invitation was not required. 

She sat up just long enough to down the second line.  As the first one kicked in, a hummed moan escaped her.  Her fingertips twined around a belt loop on his jeans.  Tugged.  In a mumbled whisper, “Come here.”

A second invitation was not required.

He carefully crawled over her.  Twirled his fingers through her hair.  Met her lips.  His heart rate picked up as he traced down her cheek.  Chin.  Neck.  His hands caressed her skin as they wrapped around her throat.

He crushed it, his kiss muffling her cries.  She left red trails on his skin as her nails raked his back, sides, arms.  She kicked him, kneed him, struggled with all her might.  He held fast. The fight in her weakened.  Her efforts grew sluggish.  Half-hearted.  Futile.  Eventually, she stopped moving.

He gripped tighter.  Mr. Bradford did not let go until he was completely certain she was dead.

Sitting up, he thought he should have been crying.  Instead, he felt nothing.  Or maybe hungry.  He looked to Denise.  She silently said K-E-N-T.  He stood.  Dragged Ms. Pendleton’s body to the kitchen.  Looked between it and Denise.  How was he going to feed an entire human corpse to her?

The pizza cutter caught his eye.  He sighed.  It would be a long night.

Two months later, someone new moved into Ms. Pendleton’s unit.  A Mr. Baumgarten.  Mr. Bradford introduced himself.  It turned out Mr. Baumgarten was a gamer and looking for someone new to play with.  Mr. Bradford admitted that a console was more than he could afford, but he enjoyed video games.  Mr. Baumgarten invited Mr. Bradford in to play.  It became a regular thing.  Especially after Mr. Bradford started sharing his stash.

Everything was in place for the next time Denise got hungry.
