A damp night in a forgotten alley in some bustling city’s outskirts.  In the distance, disgruntled drivers in need of a drink honk at those who imbibed too much already.  A mourning dove couple perched on a windowsill above coos gently.  Steaming haze erupts from a jarred manhole.  Flickering blue and red neon signs illuminate the alley like cop lights.  

The journal of collected stories lies on an overturned, metal trashcan lid.  Its pages ruffle in the chilly air as if wheezing.  Something is terribly wrong.

The journal’s cover bloats with excess water.  It should have been immune to this.  It always had been.  Whether basking in muggy rainforest or drifting along ocean depths, its sheer will provided an impervious shield.  As long as it knew what was coming, it could repel anything.  Until tonight.  Tonight, its demands for protection are unheard.

A safe place.  A new location.  The journal has to <i>move</i>.

No clear haven comes to it.  Its foggy sentience mirrors the thick haze before it.  Repairs must be attempted here.  There is no other option.

In sharp, jerking motions, its binding threads unwind.  The journal regards its pages one-by-one.  Damp, but fine.  Damp, but fine.  Damp, but— Impatiently, the journal flips through itself.  It is in pain.  The full appraisal can wait.  Something recent brought a cancer into the volume.  Surgical excision of the source is paramount.  The only path to relief.

A third of the way through turning, a page feels wrong.  The journal flips back to it.  Crunchy, crumbly dust scrapes against the book’s binding as the sick page turns again.  The journal freezes in horror as it beholds the creeping illness on beloved page 36.

A swirling, coppery brown residue radiates out of the ink.  The stiff page’s edges are tattered, chipped, ragged.  Its surface flakes off wood pulp like dead skin after a sunburn.  Its words are almost illegible.  The journal waited too long to address this.

It had sensed something was off a week prior.  But that was nothing new.  The journal had previously experienced dis-ease while empathizing with the characters on its pages.  Feeling their emotions genuinely, organically, frightened it.

However, such feelings came and went.  Moments of passing concern.  In hindsight, the journal regarded emotional contagion as a trophy.  Proof that its collection had reached a new high.  That the words’ power was now great enough to distort the world around them ever so slightly.

It had been wrong to ignore this feeling.

The afflicted story is unsalvageable.  Even if the infection clears, the page will be honeycombed with holes.  Words annihilated.  The remains read as jumbled, schizophrenic cries desperately groping for reality.  The word “shark” still reads clearly.  Stories about sharks are a dime a dozen.  Not that the journal remembers any of them.  Regardless, it knows page 36 is replaceable.

The page ignites.

Flame cleanses the journal.  It can breathe freely again.  A new story will be found to replace page 36.  The journal’s only regret is that it cannot remember the incinerated entry’s contents.  Avoiding stories with similar ailments will prove difficult if not impossible.
